Occult

"secret, not divulged," from Middle French occulte and directly from Latin occultus "hidden, concealed, secret." 
Although modern people believe the word "occult" only relates to black magic, witchcraft, and other despicable practices, the word is used in the Bible in a positive way: 

"Howbeit we ( Gnostics ) speak (Kabbalistic) wisdom among them that are (spiritually) perfect: yet (the wisdom of the mysterious Sephirah Daath that is) not the (materialistic) wisdom of this world, nor of the (intellectual) princes of this world (of Kali Yuga), that come to nought: But we speak the (Kabbalistic) wisdom of God in (the) mystery (of the Sephirah Daath ), even the occult wisdom , which God ordained before (the creation of) the world unto our glory: Which none of the (intellectual) princes of this age (of Kali Yuga) knew: for had they known it, they would not have crucified (with their filthy Fornication ) the Lord of ( Hod ) glory. But as it is written, (the intellectual) Eye hath not seen, nor (the intellectual) ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of (a fornicator) man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him (by means of the transmutation of their sexual waters into the wine of spirituality). But God hath revealed them unto us by his (Holy) Spirit: (that rises throughout the channel of Sushumna of our spinal medulla) for the (Spiritual Atom of the Holy) Spirit (in the Pineal Gland) searches all things, yea, the deep things of God . For what man knows the things of a man, save the (energy of the Holy) Spirit of man which is in (the sexual organs of) him? Even so the things of God know no man, but the (Holy) Spirit of God . Now we (are not fanatical believers who babble incoherent words or Mediums or Chanellers of Spiritualism, because we) have received not the spirit of the world of (Klipoth), but the (Holy) Spirit which is of God (in the Stone of Jacob, the Stone of Yesod ); that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God . Which things also we speak (in the language of scientific Chastity or Alchemy ), not in the words which (the intellectual animal mistakenly called) man's wisdom teaches, but which the Holy Spirit teaches; comparing spiritual things with (authentic) spiritual (matters). But the natural man (who performs the sexual act as an animal) receives not the things of the (Holy) Spirit of God (because he is a fornicator due to the sexual orgasm ): for they are foolishness unto him (because he has his brain and his pineal gland atrophied due to Fornication ): neither can he know them (the mysteries of God ), because they are spiritually discerned (with a Solar Christified Mind). But he that is spiritual (is spiritual because he created a spiritual body through scientific Chastity and thus he) judged all things (with his superlative intuition), yet he himself is judged of no (fornicator) man. For who hath known the mind of the Lord, that he may instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ (the Solar Mind)." —1 Corinthians 2: 6 -16
