Okidanokh

A term utilized by Gurdjieff to describe the Ray of Creation, the primary emanation of the Ain Soph Aur, the Solar Absolute. The energy field origin of all the cosmoses and whose vibration manifests through the Law of Three within all dimensional material manifestations. Okidanokh is the fundamental cause of all cosmic phenomena; it is the Christic substance capable of penetrating all cosmic formations. Kabbalistically, it is the life source of the sacred Triamazikamno or Logoic Trimurti: Kether , Chokmah , Binah . 
“You must also know further, that only one cosmic crystallization, existing under the name ‘Omnipresent-Okidanokh,’ obtains its prime arising—although it also is crystallized from Etherokrilno—from the three Holy sources of the sacred Theomertmalogos, that is, from the emanation of the Most Holy Sun Absolute. Everywhere in the Universe, this ‘Omnipresent-Okidanokh’ or ‘Omnipresent-Active-Element’ takes part in the formation of all both great and small arisings, and is, in general, the fundamental cause of most of the cosmic phenomena and, in particular, of the phenomena proceeding in the atmospheres." - Gurdjieff 
"During manifestation, the Ain unfolds into the Ain Soph, and from it emerges the Ain Soph Aur, which appears as the sacred Absolute Sun, and from the sacred Absolute Sun arises the most blessed, omnipresent, all-pervading, omniscient Okidanokh. The most blessed Okidanokh is also mentioned by Blavatsky by the name the Great Breath. From the Great Breath, in turn, emerges the trinity, the Holy Triamatzikamno – namely, the Holy Affirmation, the Holy Negation, and the Holy Conciliation. The Holy Okidanokh, although it enters the worlds, does not remain involved in them, and in order to create the Holy Okidanokh has split asunder into its three basic elements, which are the Holy Affirmation, the Holy Negation, and Holy Conciliation. This is how the Trimurti arises: Kether , Chokmah and Binah ; Father, Son and Holy Spirit; Positive, Negative, Neutral. Thus, the trinity emanates from the most blessed Okidanokh, which in turn, emanates from the holy Absolute Sun." - Samael Aun Weor,  Alchemical Symbolism of the Nativity of Christ 
Study:  Omnipenetrating Ray of Okidanokh
