Hasnamuss

Plural "hasnamussen." 
A term used by Gurdjieff in reference to a person with a divided Consciousness : part of it is free and natural, and part is trapped in the ego . In synthesis, everyone who has ego is a Hasnamuss. Although there are many variations and kinds of Hasnamuss, there are generally describes four primary grades: 

mortal: the common person 
those with the solar Astral body 
those with the solar bodies created 
fallen angels 

These are described in detail by Samael Aun Weor in his lecture " The Master Key ." 

“The Twice-born who does not reduce his lunar ego to cosmic dust converts himself into an abortion of the Cosmic Mother. He becomes a Marut, and there are thousands of types of Maruts. Certain oriental sects and some Muslim tribes commit the lamentable error of rendering cult to all of those families of Maruts. Every Marut, every hasnamuss has in fact two personalities: one white and another black (one solar and another lunar). The Innermost, the Being dressed with the solar electronic bodies, is the white personality of the hasnamuss, and the pluralized “I” dressed with theprotoplasmic lunar bodies is the hasnamuss’ black personality. Therefore, these Maruts have a double center of gravity.” —Samael Aun Weor 

Gurdjieff described these qualities of the Hasnamuss: 

Every kind of depravity, conscious as well as unconscious 
The feeling of self-satisfaction from leading others astray 
The irresistible inclination to destroy the existence of other breathing creatures 
The urge to become free from the necessity of actualizing the being-efforts demanded by Nature 
The attempt by every kind of artificiality to conceal from others what in their opinion are one’s physical defects 
The calm self-contentment in the use of what is not personally deserved 
The striving to be not what one is. 

Although the origin of this term is uncertain and has interesting meanings when analyzed in Arabic, Hebrew , etc., in Sanskrit we find Hasnamuss can be derived from हा Ha: a Sanskrit particle expressing sorrow, dejection, pain; अश्न asna: voracious, eating, consuming; or, a stone; मूष् mus: mouse, thief
