I

Any subjective element in the 49 levels of the mind. Each "I" has its own thoughts, feelings and activities. 

"The evil consequences of the abominable Kundabuffer organ are represented by thousands and millions of small “I’s” of an animal-like and perverse nature. In the intellectual animal, there is neither a single command center, nor an “I” or permanent ego . Each idea, each sentiment, each sensation, each desire, each “I desire this,” each “I desire such and such a thing,” each “I love, I do not love,” is a different I. All these small and quarrelsome ‘I’s argue among themselves, they fight for supremacy, they are not connected among themselves, nor coordinated in any way whatsoever. Each of these small “I’s” depends on the changes of the circumstances of life and on the changes of impressions. Each small “I” has its own ideas, its own criteria; true individuality does not exist in the poor intellectual animal. His concepts, actions, ideas, depend on the “I” which dominates the situation in those moments." - Samael Aun Weor, The Esoteric Treatise of Hermetic Astrology 

"When a human being disintegrates all of his defects, then his “I” is dissolved. The truth comes into us when the “I” is dissolved. This is how we become perfect clairvoyants. The truth is born from creative comprehension. The truth is non-temporal, eternal, and divine. The “I” cannot know the truth, because the “I” is just a bunch of memories. The “I” is of time. The “I” is born in time and dies in time. Death is just a subtraction of fractions. After finishing the mathematical operation (death), only the values remain. Later on, such values return into newborn physical bodies. Such values are the “I,” the myself, the returning ego . Therefore, the “I” is just illusion. Any crime, any felony, and any vice are the fatal outcome of the affirmation of the “I,” of the myself. The origin of pain lies within the “I.” The “I” is dissolved when we annihilate desire. Where the truth abides, the “I” cannot abide, because the truth and the “I” are incompatible. The “I” is a transitory error of the Wheel of Samsara (the Wheel of Reincarnation and Karma). The “I” is the heresy of separatism. The “I” is the origin of egotism, hatred, Fornication , Adultery , envy, anger, etc., etc. The “I” is the thirst of pleasures and the source of pride and vanity. Therefore, in order to incarnate the truth one needs to dissolve the “I.” In order to attain internal peace, one needs to dissolve the “I,” the myself. In order to acquire perfect clairvoyance and supreme illumination one needs to dissolve the “I.” The truth is the Internal Christ of every human being. The “I” is the Satan that we carry inside. Where the “I” is the truth cannot be."The Truth cannot enter where the “I” abides. The Lord is the Truth." - Samael Aun Weor, The Aquarian Message
