Infrasexual

From infra , "below, underneath, beneath; later than, smaller, inferior to," from *ndher "under." As opposed to "supra." 
Sexuality has three basic levels: 

Suprasexual ity: sexual transmutation to create the soul and the perfect human being. Christ, Buddha, Dante, Zoroaster, Mohammed, Hermes, Quetzalcoatl, and many other great masters were Suprasexual . See also  Suprasexual . 
Normal sexuality: sexuality for procreation and the continuity of the species.  
Infrasexual ity: sexuality of the underworld, hell, the abyss, which has now infected humanity worldwide. The degeneration in the use or function of the sexual organs or energy. This includes all forms of sexual perversion, such as sexual violence, sex as power or addiction, pornography, prostitution, masturbation, homosexuality, hatred of sex (such as among religious people), etc.  

"It is obvious that the Infernal Worlds [hell realms] are Infrasexual . It is evident that Infrasexual ity reigns with sovereignty within humanity." —Samael Aun Weor, Tarot and Kabbalah 

"It is necessary to remember that Infrasexual ity hates normal sex and Suprasex. In all ages, Infrasexual ones have blasphemed against the Third Logos, considering sex to be taboo, a sin, a cause for shame, clandestine, etc. Infrasexual people have schools where they teach people to hate sex. Infrasexual people consider themselves to be Mahatmas, hierophants, etc." —Samael Aun Weor, The Perfect Matrimony 

"Kabbalistic traditions state that Adam had two wives: Lilith and Nahemah. Lilith is the mother of abortions, homosexuality and in general, all kinds of crimes against Nature. Nahemah is the mother of malignant beauty, passion and Adultery . Thus, the Abyss is divided into two large regions: the spheres of Lilith and Nahemah. Infrasexual ity reigns sovereign in these two large regions. [...] The sphere of Lilith is characterized by its cruelty. The psychology of this sphere has various aspects: monks and nuns who hate sex, homosexuality in convents, homosexuality outside of monastic life, induced abortions, people who love masturbation, criminals of the brothel, people who enjoy torturing others, etc. In this sphere we find the most horrible crimes reported in police records: horrible cases of bloody crimes of homosexual origin, terrifying acts of sadism, homosexuality in jails, lesbianism, terrifying psychotic criminals, those who enjoy making their loved one suffer, horrible infanticides, patricides, matricides, etc. In this sphere we also find pseudo-occultists who would rather suffer from nocturnal pollution than get married, people who mortally hate the Arcanum A. Z. F. and the Perfect Matrimony, people who believe that they can reach God while hating sex, anchoritic people who abhor sex and who consider it vulgar and gross. [...] The sphere of Nahemah seduces with the enchantment of her malignant beauty. In this Infrasexual sphere we find the “Don Juans and femme fatales.” The world of prostitution unfolds in this sphere. The Infrasexual men of Nahemah feel very manly. Men who have many women live in this sphere. They feel happy in Adultery . They believe themselves to be very manly; they are unaware that they are Infrasexual . In the sphere of Nahemah we also find millions of prostitutes. These poor women are victims of the fatal charm of Nahemah. In the sphere of Nahemah we find elegant ladies of high social standing. These people are very happy within Adultery . That is their world. In the Infrasexual region of Nahemah we find a sweetness that moves the soul: virgins that seduce with the charm of their tenderness, very beautiful seductive women, men who abandon their homes bewitched by the enchantment of these most precious beauties. In this region we also find indescribable beauty, uncontrollable passions, beautiful salons, elegant cabarets, soft beds, delightful dances, orchestras of the Abyss, unforgettable romantic words that cannot be forgotten, etc. The Infrasexual people of Nahemah sometimes accept the Arcanum A.Z.F. ( Sexual Magic ) but fail because they are unable to avoid the ejaculation of semen . They almost always withdraw from the Perfect Matrimony uttering horrible things against it. We have heard them saying: “I practiced Sexual Magic and sometimes I was able to remain without spilling the semen . I was an animal enjoying the delicious passions of sex.” After withdrawing from the path of the razor’s edge, represented by the spinal medulla, they seek refuge in some seductive doctrine of Nahemah. If they are lucky enough not to fall into the sphere of Lilith, they continue ejaculating the seminal liquor. Such is their Infrasexual world." —Samael Aun Weor,  The Perfect Matrimony 

" Infrasexual s and perverts mortally hate the doctrine of Peter. Many are the sincerely mistaken ones who believe that they can Self-realize by excluding sex. Many are the ones that talk against sex, the ones that insult sex, the ones that spit all of their slanderous drivel on the sacred sanctuary of the Third Logos. Those that hate sex, those that say that sex is gross, filthy, animalistic, bestial, are the insulters, the ones that blaspheme against the Holy Spirit. 
"Flee Fornication (spilling of semen ), every sin that a man doeth is without the body but he that committeth Fornication sinneth against his own body. [1 Corinthians 6:18] 
"Wherefore I say unto you, all manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven unto men...neither in this world, neither in the world to come. [Matthew 12:31-32; see also Mark 3:28-29] 
"For if we sin wilfully after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins. [Hebrews 10:26; see also Hebrews 10:27-31] 
Whosoever pronounces himself against Sexual Magic , whosoever spits their infamy against the sanctuary of the Third Logos, cannot ever reach the Second Birth. In the Occidental world, many people exist that mortally hate Sexual Magic . Those people justify their absurd hatred with many pretexts. They say that the Maithuna is only for Oriental people, and that we the occidentals are not prepared. Such people affirm that with this doctrine of sex Yoga , the unique thing that can result is a harvest of black magicians. What is interesting about all of this is that such people of a reactionary, conservative, regressive and retarded type do not say a single word against Fornication , against Adultery , against prostitution, against homosexuality, against masturbation, etc., etc. All of this seems normal to them, and they do not have any inconvenience in miserably squandering the sexual energy. Sex must be in itself the most elevated creative function. Disgracefully, ignorance reigns with sovereignty and humanity is very distant from comprehending the great mysteries of sex." —Samael Aun Weor,  Tarot and Kabbalah 

"Really, it causes pain to see those poor Infrasexual s in the Molecular World (Astral Plane) after death. Their lunar bodies convert them into lunar women who wander throughout the Molecular World as somnambulists, asleep, cold, and unconscious creatures. What was the good of all of the subjective practices of these Infrasexual s? What was the good of all of their beliefs, systems, orders, etc.? To no avail, the Infrasexual s will try to gain their liberation by despising sex, by renouncing the Maithuna ( Sexual Magic ), by abstinence, by abuse, or by following the degenerated path of the homosexuals and masturbators, etc. Uselessly, the mistaken, sincere ones try to create the Solar Bodies by practicing respiratory exercises, Yoga without Maithuna , or similar exercises, or with vegetarian diets, etc. It is completely demonstrated that we are children of sex and that only through [pure, upright] sex can we create. Really, we can only create the Solar Bodies with sex. We can convert ourselves into Solar Spirits only with the marvelous force of the Third Logos." —Samael Aun Weor, The Revolution of Beelzebub
