Initiation

Initiations are stages of spiritual development. Initiation is internal, spiritual, and not physical. 
"There are white initiations and black initiations, temples of light and temples of darkness." - Samael Aun Weor,  The Perfect Matrimony 
"There are very respectable and venerable schools. These institutions have their courses of instruction and degrees. Some of them also have rituals of initiation. However, in the superior worlds the degrees and initiations from these schools are useless. The Masters of the White Lodge are not interested in the degrees and hierarchies of the physical world. They are only interested in the Kundalini . They examine and measure the spinal medulla. If the candidate has not yet raised the serpent, for them, he is simply an ordinary being, like any other, even though he may occupy some high position in the physical world, or be a venerable person or some supreme hierarch in his school or lodge. If the Kundalini has risen three vertebrae, he is considered by the masters to be an initiate of the Third Degree, and if has risen it only one vertebra, an initiate of the First Degree. Thus, the masters are only interested in the Kundalini ." - Samael Aun Weor,  The Perfect Matrimony 
"Initiation is something very intimate, very secret, very divine. Avoid all those who say, “I have so many initiations, so many degrees.” Avoid all those who say, “I am a master of Major Mysteries; I have received so many initiations.” Remember, dear reader, that the “I,” that the personality does not receive initiations. Initiation is a matter for the Innermost; it has to do with the Consciousness , with the very delicate things of the Soul. One must not go about speaking of these things. No true adept would ever use phrases like, “I am a master of the White Lodge,” “I have such-and-such degree,” “I have so many initiations,” “I have these powers,” etc." - Samael Aun Weor,  The Perfect Matrimony 
"Initiation is neither bought nor sold. Avoid those schools that give initiations by correspondence. Avoid all those who sell initiations. Initiation is something very intimate to the Soul. The “I” does not receive initiations. Therefore, those who say, “I have so many initiations,” “I have such-and-such degrees,” are liars and fakes, because the “I” does not receive initiations or degrees. There are nine Initiations of Minor Mysteries and five important Initiations of Major Mysteries. The Soul is the one who receives the initiations. This is a very intimate matter; something that one must not go about speaking of, nor something that must be told to anyone. Indeed, all the initiations and degrees that many schools of the physical world confer have no value whatsoever in the superior worlds, because the masters of the White Lodge only recognize the legitimate initiations of the Soul as genuine. These are completely internal. The disciple can ascend the nine arcades, pass through all the nine Initiations of Minor Mysteries, without having worked in the Arcanum A.Z.F. ( Sexual Magic ). Nevertheless, it is impossible to enter the Major Mysteries without Sexual Magic (the Arcanum A.Z.F.)." - Samael Aun Weor,  The Perfect Matrimony 
"There are eight Initiations of Major Mysteries and nine Initiations of Minor Mysteries. To reach the great Initiations of Major Mysteries is impossible without having passed through the nine Initiations of Minor Mysteries. [...] Samael Aun Weor declares that he was the first human being in the world to publicly deliver to humanity the secrets of initiation. If the reader of this book wants to enter the path of initiation right now, then let him study and totally live my two books  The Perfect Matrimony  and  The Revolution of Beelzebub ." - Samael Aun Weor,  Esoteric Medicine and Practical Magic 
"Authentic degrees and authentic white initiations are received in the Consciousness . These initiatic ceremonies are performed within the superior worlds. Initiations are intimate realizations of the Consciousness , which must not be revealed, or spoken about. No one can grant initiations to anyone. Initiation is attained through life itself." - Samael Aun Weor,  The Major Mysteries 
"Only the Innermost is the unique One who receives Initiations, Degrees and Feasts. The Initiations are for the Innermost. You are nothing else but a shadow which must be annihilated." - Samael Aun Weor,  The Aquarian Message 
"The only objective of the [first] five Initiations of Major Mysteries is the fabrication of the solar bodies. In Gnosticism and esotericism, one understands that the fabrication of the solar bodies and the incarnation of the Being are known as the Second Birth." - Samael Aun Weor, Practical Astrology 
"There are nine Initiations of Minor Mysteries and seven great Initiations of Major Mysteries. The INNERMOST is the one who receives all of these initiations. The Testament of Wisdom says: “Before the dawning of the false aurora upon the earth, the ones who survived the hurricane and the tempest were praising the INNERMOST, and the heralds of the aurora appeared unto them.” The psychological “I” does not receives initiations. The human personality does not receive anything. Nonetheless, the “I” of some initiates becomes filled with pride when saying 'I am a master, I have such initiations.' Thus, this is how the “I” believes itself to be an initiate and keeps reincarnating in order to “perfect itself”, but, the “I” never ever perfects itself. The “I” only reincarnates in order to satisfy desires. That is all." - Samael Aun Weor, The Aquarian Message 
"Just as they are called initiations, so in actual fact we have learned from them the fundamentals of life and have grasped the basis not only for living with joy but also dying with a better hope." - Cicero
