Innermost

"That part of the Reality ( God ) within man that the Yogi seeks to attune himself to before attaining cosmic Consciousness ." - M, The Dayspring of Youth 
“Our real Being is of a universal nature. Our real Being is neither a kind of superior nor inferior “I.” Our real Being is impersonal, universal, divine. He transcends every concept of “I,” me, myself, ego , etc., etc.” - Samael Aun Weor, The Perfect Matrimony 
Also known as Atman (the "self"), the Spirit, Chesed , our own individual interior divine Father. 
"...the nature of the Innermost is absolute happiness, absolute existence, and absolute omniscience." - Samael Aun Weor, Igneous Rose 
"The Innermost is the ardent flame of Horeb. In accordance with Moses, the Innermost is the Ruach Elohim (the Spirit of God ) who sowed the waters in the beginning of the world. He is the Sun King, our Divine Monad, the Alter- ego of Cicerone." - Samael Aun Weor, The Revolution of Beelzebub 
"The Innermost is a true human being that lives incarnated within the human body, and that all of us carry crucified in our heart. When the human being awakens from his dream of ignorance, then he delivers himself to his own Innermost. Then the Innermost unites himself with the Christ and the human being becomes powerful as the Absolute from where he emanated. The Innermost is God within the human being. The human being who ignores this great truth is only a shadow, a shadow of his Innermost." - Samael Aun Weor,  Tarot and Kabbalah 
"Atman is our Innermost, our divine Seity, the seventh principle who is in all Beings, but who is not within all human beings. In order for oneself to be fused with Atman, the following experience is required: to depart in the Astral body by abandoning the physical body; afterwards, one has to abandon the Astral body by ordering the following, “Go out of me.” In order to perform this, willpower is required. So when doing this, the Astral body leaves through the vertebral column and we remain in the world of the mind. Afterwards, one has to abandon the Mental body by commanding the following, “body of the mind, go out of me.” This is performed with an act of willpower, and one remains with the Causal body that also has to be ordered to go out of us. This also requires a great effort. The body of conscious will obeys better, and one orders it to go out and abandon the thirty-three vertebrae, leaving oneself with the buddhic or intuitional body. This body is very obedient and also has to be ordered to go out. Thus, in this way one remains in the world of Chesed , in the world of Atman, the ineffable one. [...] The one that thinks is the mind, not the Innermost. The human mind in its current state of evolution is the animal that we carry within. The concept of Descartes, “I think therefore I am,” is completely false, because the true human being is the Innermost, and the Innermost does not think because he knows. Atman does not need to think because Atman is omniscient." - Samael Aun Weor, Tarot and Kabbalah
