Itoklanoz Principle

“And it is according to the second principle of being-existence that all one-brained and two-brained beings in general exist wherever they may arise.… And the sense and aim of the existence of these beings, also, consist in this, that there are transmuted through them the cosmic substances required not for purposes of a common-cosmic character, but only for that solar system or even only for that planet alone, in which and upon which these one-brained and two-brained beings arise. In any case, for the further elucidation of the strangeness of the psyche of those three-brained beings who have taken your fancy, you must know this also, that in the beginning, after the organ Kundabuffer with all its properties had been removed from their presences, the duration of their existence was according to the ‘Fulasnitamnian’ principle, that is to say, they were obliged to exist until there was coated in them and completely perfected by reason what is called the ‘body-Kesdjan,’ or, as they themselves later began to name this being-part of theirs—of which, by the way, contemporary beings know only by hearsay—the ‘Astral-body.’ And so, my boy, when later, for reasons of which you will learn in the course of my further tales, they began to exist already excessively abnormally, that is to say, quite unbecomingly for three-brained beings, and when in consequence of this they had on the one hand ceased to emanate the vibrations required by Nature for the maintenance of the separated fragments of their planet, and, on the other hand, had begun, owing to the chief peculiarity of their strange psyche, to destroy beings of other forms of their planet, thereby gradually diminishing the number of sources required for this purpose, then Nature Herself was compelled gradually to actualize the presences of these three-brained beings according to the second principle, namely, the principle ‘Itoklanoz,’ that is, to actualize them in the same way in which She actualizes one-brained and two-brained beings in order that the equilibrium of the vibrations required according to quality and quantity should be attained."- Guirdjieff, Beelzebub's Tales to His Grandson 


When someone acquires the Elixir of Long Life they can live a thousand years perfectly, which is the normal span for a human being. When the human being was governed by the Fulasnitamnian principle — which governs human beings — one lived about a thousand years and sometimes more, as an average life. 
When the abominable Kundabuffer organ had already completely damaged the body, it caused, we might say, the psychic aggregates to emerge, then the consciousness became embedded within those aggregates. Then one was subjected to another law, which is the law of the Itoklanoz principle (which is an animal principle). Thus, life was shortened more and more, and more and more. Today one hardly lives even 50 or 65 years. People are dying at those ages; this is what statistics tell us. 
So, if someone receives the Fulasnitamnian principle, then obviously that person may have the right to live their normal life of about thousand years. That is the normal span for any true human being. That is the normal span of the true human, the true human who is already free from the Itoklanoz principle and is under the Fulasnitamnian principle. Such strange names, right? But this is how these principles are well known. 
So, when one is under the Fulasnitamnian principle, one can live a thousand years. When one reaches a thousand, one asks for another thousand and they give them to you, and if one pleads, every time one asks for a thousand more and they give them to you. Thus, one can live for millions of years..." -Samael Aun Weor, My Egyptian Mummy
