Nirvani

or Nirvanee (Sanskrit, locative of nirvana) Loosely, one who abides in nirvana, or who is "liberated" to some degree. 
The word Nirvani is used in Hinduism among various groups as a title of status. 
Nirvani is also used to describe those who awakened enough to reside in Nirvana, yet remain there, absorbed, and forget the suffering of those they left behind. In other words, they are "selfish gods." 
"It is stated, “It is better to be a good man than a bad Angel.” When apprehending the most complicated characters of the “I,” we perceive that it becomes subtly covetous; here it no longer covets noble titles, but it covets divine titles and wants everyone to call it Master; it covets hierarchic and esoteric titles, and thus, one loses very long, infinite eternities entangled in the karma of the worlds. Here, it no longer covets gold or silver, but it covets occult powers; it no longer covets honors and greatness, but it covets initiations and degrees. Here, it no longer covets lordships or earthly kingdoms, but it covets internal kingdoms, lordships and majesties within the superior worlds. Here, it enjoys governing paradises, and moreover, although this may seem incredible to you, it even become jealous of its own divine hierarchy and thus, it transforms itself into an ineffable tempter, who enjoys governing worlds and suns, and thus offers its Edens to the bodhisattvas of compassion. Here, it no longer wants to rest on cushy beds within comfortable earthly mansions, but it longs to rest in the ineffable bliss of Nirvana. Yes, the “I” of the Nirvanis does not like the narrow, hard, and difficult path. It enjoys itself in Nirvanic, celestial rests, while wretched humanity suffers and cries. Notwithstanding, the Nirvanis offer unto the bodhisattvas of compassion their seductive paradises in order to impede the entrance into the Absolute. Verily, I tell you, beloved disciples, that it is better to renounce the bliss of Nirvana and to follow the path of long and bitter duty. The path of duty leads us directly to the Absolute. This is better than the bliss of Nirvana. Let us not fall into these divine, Nirvanic temptations." - Samael Aun Weor, The Major Mysteries 
"The Nirvanis do not possess any of the four bodies of sin: physical, ethereal, astral, or mental. The Master takes only the psy- chic extracts from those bodies, which are absorbed and assimilated, before entering Nirvana." - Samael Aun Weor, The Zodiacal Course
