NOTES OF NATURAL MEDICINE
 PHILOSOPHY OF MEDICINE
    MEDICAL THEURGY
    
       V.M. MICHAEL

                  DEDICATION
We dedicate this book:

To all the sick people of Planet Earth who want to be cured
in order to do their WORK.

To all the people who suffer.

To all the people who sincerely repent for having violated
the LAW and who want to correct themselves.

To all the sincere people who want to help others be cured.




                     PROLOGUE
A book on Medicine and Theurgy for the Kali Yuga can be
read by anyone, but only understood by those who have
begun to Christify their mind.

The Christ Mind must not necessarily have been created,
but the Gnostic Arhat must be forming.

That is why this book contains teachings, formulas, and
indications for the coming ages.

With right logic and great wisdom V.M. Samael Aun Weor
emphasized that his book Treatise on Occult Medicine and
Practical Magic, published in the last century, would be
for the Age of Aquarius.

The author of this book, as he tells us, is the V.M. Michael,
who again brings us organized, clear and precise
information for this moment that we are going through.

His remarkable ability to organize is undeniable, which is
demonstrated in this simple and clear text, earns him the
title of Clarissimus.

Each work of the V.M. Michael that comes to light,
serves as an instrument in the Harvest of the Sun.

Without fear of being mistaken, we will henceforth see
conscious submission as an act of reverence, in the
initiates who recognize the Divine Hierarchy in the
Cosmic order.



Returning to Medicine and the science in question in this
book, we will say that life must be assisted by the Medic
who entrusts himself to the Dove of the Third Logos.

Medicine as "God's Mandate" is to assist life, cure it, heal
it, care for it and honor it.

We know very well that when we come into the world we
have a physical body that the Divine Mother Nature has
created with great tenderness and diligence. In addition
we are given two things which are honor and life.

Honor is that expression of the Being, which impels us to
be faithful to the Law.

Life is an unfolding of the Christ, administered by his
Spirit: the Holy Spirit.

In these texts we will find experiential information as the
author emphasizes, that is related to Honor and Life.

With these introductory words, as it is our healthy habit to
do so, we strive to transmit with fantastic stories that come
to life in the world of Christic ideas, the reason for the
existence of this book.

“Ancient traditions tell that Apollo had fallen in love with
Coronide, daughter of the King of the Lapiths.

The Princess aroused great enthusiasm in the director of the
Muses, to such an extent that they lay on the shores of Lake
Voivis.



The Luminous God had unsuspectingly fecundated the
humanity of Coronide.

But, the one of royal descent was in love with Ischis.

Ischis of Arcadia reciprocated his love for the princess.

And the union of the lovers was not long in coming.

Apollo, when he was to fulfill his duties as part of the Olympic
Council, left Coronide guarded by a crow, which at the time was
of immaculate white plumage.

The intelligent and watchful bird realized the irregular idyll.

He took off in rapid flight towards Delphi to meet the Arrow
God, he approached and narrated what had happened to the God,
who could not contain the disastrous news and transformed the
crow's plumage from white to black for not having stung Ischis’s
eyes. From then he is attracted by the eye shine.

Artemis, the hunting Goddess sister of Apollo, seeing her
brother suffering from moral penance, discharged all her quiver
on the humanity of Coronide.

She is dying, he told Apollo: "Not one dies, but two die."

The one who sees everything, understood these words, and
already being embraced by the fire in his funeral ritual, Apollo
called the eloquent Mercury, the God of light feet, and entrusted
him to remove from the royal womb the creature that was alive
and gestating.

Thus, Asclepius was born. Asclepius became the God of
Medicine. Son of Apollo, grandson of Zeus.

His tutor and educator was the Centaur Chiron, condemned to
the penalty of living wounded. Wise among the Wise.

Asclepius knew every herb, every surgery, every string of magic
words to heal.

Because of his great knowledge, there was a stir and confusion
in the abode of the Gods, to such an extent that Zeus had to
fulminate him with his lightning, when he understood that there
was a risk that men would take control of life, because Asclepius
specialized in the art of resurrecting.

When this happened, Apollo, blinded by another moral pain,
unable to contain the loss of his son and God of Medicine, set out
to kill several Cyclops (sons of Zeus).

After doing so, he was reprimanded and punished. Apollo had to
work among men and for men until he purged his grief.

Returning to his place as an Olympian, he interceded with his
beloved Father the Toning God to give immortality to Asclepius,
and so it was. Asclepius resurrected and immortalized by Zeus,
lives forever and ever.

Asclepius the resurrected resuscitator. The son of Apollo,
grandson of Zeus.

Asclepius is the regenerated, resurrected life, represented by the
Sacred Lizard. Apollo is the Father of Asclepius.”

If we pay attention to this myth, we will discover in
abundance the reasons for the existence of this book.




You can read this text of permanent consultation, with
precise, specific and clear instructions for each physical or
emotional ailment.

Once again we say and even insist, that the Venerable
White Lodge at this moment, is making available to all the
initiated the necessary information to be able to continue
with the Great Work of the Father.

At a time when the emotional, mental and will imbalance
of humanity is being accentuated affecting the People of
God, Divine help comes to us again and again.

Be faithful until death and I will give you the crown of
Victory, reads the sacred text.

These are times when we must be faithful to death.

Tense and dark moments, from where we will get
temperance and light.

The day will come when we can all remember with
knowledge and wisdom these years of the end of a Race.

Full of life, harmony and medicine.

Emotion, mind and willpower are associated with three
initiations of Major Mysteries, crowning the first
mountain reaching Mastery.

The interesting and fruitful thing is to move beyond the
fatal mixture of emotion, mind and willpower and to
move forward on the path of liberation.


Dear reader, here in these pages you will find help,
assistance and life for those processes.

We know that this text will remain as a testimony of the
final epoch of the Fifth Root Race. That is why we feel
great responsibility and honor in writing these lines.

We want to bear witness to the presence of V.M. Michael
in the heart of the People and to his Mission that he is
fulfilling mathematically and mercifully with humanity
and with all of us, which remains as a witness for future
generations.

This book is a living testimony.

We thank once again V.M. Michael for granting us the
grace to accompany him in this historic moment, to be able
to continue to be soldiers of Christ on Earth and to be part
of his Principality.

We are grateful for this book that comes to cover the needs
of the People of God.

May the Mandate of God as medicine impact your hearts,
dear brothers in Christ.

In this way the physical and emotional sorrows will be
alleviated, harmonizing with the Infinite in the encounter
of the Son with his Mother.
Thank you.
                                             V.M. Galeno
                                   Temple Samael – Rome
                                           June 13, 20184

                 INTRODUCTION
Today, May 1st, 2018 of the Christian Era, from the Gnostic
Monastery AEON 13, at the foot of Mount Olympus in
Greece, on Planet Earth, in the Solar System of Ors,
belonging to the Pleiades, in the Milky Way, I am about to
begin the task of writing a small book on Natural Medicine
and Medical Theurgy.

You may wonder, dear reader, why we state in such detail
our location. This is because we want to leave in the
Akashic Records of Nature, the testimony of the various
teachings that are managed to be practiced and unveiled
at the end of the Fifth Root Race (ARYAN) on this Planet.

I want to explain at the beginning of this book, how it
occurred that I had the idea of writing about these topics,
since Medicine is not in itself my specialty, nor the specific
ray of the expression of my BEING. But, on my inner path
in this life and in my passage through the different Gnostic
Schools of many countries, through the missionary work
we have carried out with my wife, I have had direct and
experimental contact with Natural Medicine and Medical
Theurgy. Specifically with hundreds of formulas and
treatments of theurgy delivered by the V.M. SAMAEL
AUN WEOR, the V.M. LAKHSMI DAIMON and by the
V.M. GALENO, through their physical expressions, at the
end of this Race.

I have had the opportunity to experiment on myself and
also to directly help hundreds of Gnostic students with
natural formulas, with medicinal plants and with theurgic
practices of healing. Therefore, my learning and what we
are going to expose in this book is not at all theoretical, but
has been 100% experimental and proven through facts and
living experience.

The V.M. LAKHSMI once said that every Initiate, when
reaching the Fifth Initiation of Major Mysteries and
Mastery, at some point has to practice medicine. This
refers of course to natural medicine, the medicine of the
spirit, through his REAL BEING, his INNER GOD, who is
the one who has the power to heal.

A few weeks ago, I discovered on my left arm mainly and
in some other places of the body, that there had formed
some varicose veins.

As has happened to me so many times in this existence, I
set out to seek information from the Masters in order to
see how this disease could be cured with Natural
Medicine.

The first thing I remembered is that the V.M. GALENO
had told me some time ago that for varicose veins and for
the problems with the valves that the veins have for blood
return, that horse chestnut was very beneficial.

I also consulted, as I always do on these occasions, the
book “Treatise on Occult Medicine and Practical Magic”
of the V.M. SAMAEL to see what he advises for varicose
veins.

In that book the Master says that varicose veins are cured
with Horse Chestnut, Witch Hazel, Elderberry and that
these plants are formidable.

As I am not fully well versed on elderberry and I do not
know if it can be obtained in Greece, I bought the witch
hazel plant and got capsules of horse chestnut. With great
faith for this treatment, I then prepared these medicinal
plants in order to cure varicose veins.

I told myself that if I was cured (as has happened many
times with these types of treatments that I performed on
myself or that I have seen in other people) that I would
write a small book. That I would also write it in a very
simple and clear way, to summarize and share with my
Brother Man and with my Sister Humanity the wonders
that plants can do and natural and magical formulas,
extracted from the bowels of Nature.

However, a requirement was internally indicated to me, in
case the book was indeed written: “All the plants,
formulas and practices that are included must have been
experienced by yourself or by someone close to you, with
proven results; you cannot include material compiled
from the Masters without having experienced it, because
that is what their books are for. In addition, the book must
be simple, clear and eminently practical”.

Each morning I would prepare a Witch Hazel infusion,
blessing the plant and asking my Inner Being to order the
Elemental Intercessor to perform the Elemental Ritual of
the Plant, so that it worked intensely and healed my
varicose veins.

Simultaneously and in addition to this procedure I took a
capsule of Horse Chestnut in the morning and another in
the evening.

The days went by, and a few weeks passed, and as you
must have already realized, dear reader, since I find
myself writing this book, this entails that I was cured.

Truly, the varicose veins practically disappeared after a
few weeks, thanks to the treatment with these two plants
provided by Mother Nature.

So, this is a book written in a very simplified and special
way for the Kali Yuga of this fifth Root Race of Planet
Earth, where the human being has almost no will to
practice.

Therefore, we have simplified to the maximum extent all
the formulas and treatments to attempt to get people to
use them in the conditions in which Humanity is living
today and not to be defeated by inertia, laziness and by the
mind which almost always thinks that the treatments are
very complicated and therefore fails to put them into
practice.

In all transparency, we have practiced and know many
more formulas and treatments, but as we have seen that in
practice they are not executed. Therefore, we have decided
to include in this treatise only the simplest formulas to
execute that have been proven to have efficient results.

I want to express at this moment that one of the main
reasons for which I have decided to write this Work is to
help Humanity with these formulas and with these
philosophical ideas related to illness and medicine, in
order to help mitigate the pain and suffering that is


produced by the physical, emotional and psychological
imbalance in which we are found.

And the other reason that has also prompted me to order
these notes and present them publicly, is to give a
testimony of the efficiency of the formulas of natural
medicine that have been given to us by V.M. SAMAEL
AUN WEOR, V.M. LAKHSMI DAIMON and V.M.
GALENO.

It is not our goal to repeat what the Venerable Masters
already wrote in their treatises and books on Natural
Medicine, much less to correct anything. As the saying
goes, “We do not want to greet each other with another’s
hat".

To end this chapter, we wish to quote a part of an ancient
Egyptian ritual that says:

“For Love, for Light and for Freedom, be happy my
brothers.

May the holy and intimate joy of the welcomed Master
fill you and load you with eternal peace.

Be strong, with more and more strength and dominating
energy, in order to convert yourselves into heroes and
thus be able to fight the eternal enemy of the night.

Feel full of yourselves, like gigantic Kings, always
operating under his immaculate name.

Shake your Sword and your Spear to break the three
enigmas of time, whose phantom has vanished at the

magic conjuration of your word, and always be on top of
all things; so that at all times you are fit and propitious
to receive his Holy Advent.”

Dear Brother, if you want to heal yourself, STOP violating
the LAW, repent of your sins and in this way, with the
permission of the DIVINE LAW, you will receive the
GRACE of the MOST SACRED HOLY SPIRIT, GOD OF
GODS AND GIVER OF LIFE, who is the one that has the
POWER to CURE.



                    THE AUTHOR




  PART ONE

NATURAL MEDICINE




          CHAPTER 1
MEDICINAL PLANTS AND NATURAL
          FORMULAS
We will present a number of plants and natural formulas
that we have experienced directly on ourselves or have
seen in action on other people, with proven practical
results.

We also want to clarify that we are going to cite the most
common diseases of this time.

                        ACNE
To treat acne you should take DRENADOR and perform
breathing exercises for transmutation, such as
PRANAYAMA.

                 STOMACH ACIDITY
Infusion of chamomile, wormwood, dandelion.
Be more orderly during meals and avoid flours, starch and
sweets.

               HEARTBURN AT NIGHT
Avoid eating very sweet foods, or cheese as the last meal
of the day. Do not lie down on a full stomach.

                     URIC ACID
Avoid eating meat, but instead salads with garlic, onions
and dandelion for 1 month. Additionally, try Horsetail.




    FOOD THAT IS NOT CONTAMINATED WITH
                      RADIATION
Pineapple, garlic, onion, lemon, honey, bee pollen, royal
jelly, aloe.

                      TONSILLITIS
Gargle 3 times a day with an infusion of fresh rosemary
leaves boiled in white wine.

                       ANAEMIA
Drink beetroot juice. Consume iron-rich foods such as
green leafy vegetables, cow liver, walnuts, almonds. Take
supplements of Iron, Vitamin B-6, B-12 ,and folic acid.

                   ANTIOXIDANTS
Vitamin E, Vitamin C, Magnesium, Selenium, Moringa are
free radical scavengers and therefore protect our cells
against aging and degenerative diseases.

                 CLOGGED ARTERIES
Tincture of Mistletoe, soy lecithin. Consume TRINAMIL,
4 tablespoons per day, half an hour before meals.

                 ARTERIOSCLEROSIS
Tincture of Mistletoe. Long walks.

                  ARTHRITIS
Fresh raw garlic, Lemon, Magnesium, Vitamin B
Complex, DRENADOR. Shark cartilage.

                  OSTEOARTHRITIS
Shark cartilage. Magnesium.



                        SPLEEN
For pains in the spleen you can use Vitalvin. It has an
almost immediate effect.

      FAT LUMPS AND SPOTS ON THE SKIN
Apply cream of aranto with beeswax on the area of the
problem.

                           HAIR
To strengthen, soften and arrest hair loss, you can use sage
oil, made with virgin olive oil, gently massaging the scalp.

                   KIDNEY STONES
Take 2 tablespoons of DRENADOR, 3 times a day. Avoid
eating tomatoes, disorderly consumption of meat, salty
cheese, and foods or medicines that contain concentrations
of calcium.

              VESICULAR STONES
Cured with PANACEA.

                  EXCESSIVE HEAT
When an excessive heat wave occurs somewhere that lasts
a few days, people should not eat meat until the
phenomenon passes.




                         CANCER

                       WARNING
Since this is one of the diseases afflicting humanity
currently and wreaking the most havoc, we are going to
transcribe a warning given to us by V.M. LAKHSMI in the
book "Treatise on Natural Medicine, Palmistry, Iridology
and Symptomatology", regarding all products which are
carcinogenic.

Below is a list of products that are proven to be great
producers of cancer. So that the brothers who think it
convenient do not use them and can advise others, since
all we can do is warn of the danger for those who do not
want to fall into these traps.

1. Smoking.
2. Aerosol sprays.
3. Canned foods.
4. Aspirin, Caffeine, Alka-Seltzer and any product that
contains Salicylic Acid.
5. Refined sugars and sweet food colorings.
6. Soft drinks (all of them, especially Coca-Cola and Pepsi).
7. Condiments that come ready-made, ground and
packaged.
8. Most of the coffee that comes ground and packaged, as
these contain blood and other highly toxic products (Even
worse is "decaffeinated" coffee).
9. Fluorescent Lamps and Mercury Lighting.
10. Color Television.
11. Any medicinal product based on Chlorine, such as
water treated with Chlorine.

12. Most of the cosmetics that women use, especially those
that contain hormones, also nail polish remover, acetone,
etc.
13. All Contraceptives.
14. Refined wheat flours.
15. Precooked corn (Instant Corn).
16. Canned fruits and their juices (also compotes for
children).
17. Sausages (cold cuts, sausages, hams, etc.)
18. Eggs from agricultural industries.
19. Sachet soups and sauces in jars.
20. Canned salads.
21. Pork, incubator chickens.

To this ENDLESS LIST of foods, we can also add a series
of substances, antibiotics and medicines, which cause
serious damage to our body, destroying its natural
defenses, causing the infamous IATROGENIC DISEASES.

Attention: with Aspirins, Enterobioform, Penicillins,
various     antibiotics, Chloraienicols, Antiallergics,
Spheroids, various CHEMICAL preservatives (Nitrites,
Sodium Nitrates, Sodium Glutamate, Phosphoric Acid,
Artificial Colors, etc.)

These refined products, concentrated, with artificial
flavors and colors and preserved through CHEMICALS or
RADIATIONS, are responsible DIRECTLY and
INDIRECTLY for the "DISEASES OF CIVILIZATIONS".
(Circulatory, respiratory, renal, dermal, obesity, cancer,
etc., etc., etc. WHERE THERE ARE NO MICROBES TO
ACCUSE."

                     TREATMENT
Dried rattlesnake’s meat (Cell regenerator).
The patient takes one capsule per hour while awake, until
he is healed.
(During the rattlesnake treatment, animal proteins should
not be consumed).

Shark cartilage (Cytostatic).

Aranto tincture (Cell regenerator).

Royal jelly (Cell regenerator).

The patient should drink two liters of horsetail
(equisetum) infusion, per day.

Steam baths (HAMMAM), alternated with cold water
showers, 3 minutes each, 3 times. In total 3 steam baths
and 3 cold showers, in the morning hours.

Reduce sugar consumption and eat as naturally as
possible (fruits, vegetables, grains).

Eliminate the consumption of soft drinks.

Accompany the treatment with TRINAMIL.

            PREPARATION OF TRINAMIL
15 fresh lemons, 12 cloves of fresh garlic, 1 kg of honey,
400 gr of sprouted grains (organic, young green wheat)
and 400 gr of fresh walnuts.



                WHEAT PREPARATION
Place the 400 grams of young wheat in a container. Pour
water and leave it like this overnight. After 10 or 12 hours
the water is strained through clean gauze, the grains are
washed and strained again through a gauze.

Add the drained wheat to a container and let it rest for 24
hours. After that, you consume wheat sprouts, of a 1-2
millimeter length.

          PREPARATION OF THE SOLUTION
Grind germinated wheat, walnuts and skinned garlic
cloves. Grind 5 lemons with their peel and mix everything
together. Make lemon juice from the other 10 lemons and
mix it with the rest of the mixture until it becomes
homogeneous.

Add the honey, stir with a wooden spoon and put the
mixture in a container. Leave it for 3 days in the
refrigerator and then you can start consuming it.

                           DOSE
This remedy is taken as follows: 1 tablespoon, 30 minutes
before breakfast, lunch, dinner and before going to bed. If
used to treat cancer, take 1-2 tablespoons every 2 hours.

                      TESTIMONIALS
In the last 30 years we have seen dozens of patients treated
for cancer with rattlesnake and with this treatment
described above.

We have witnessed a very large number of people become
completely cured of this illness. We also saw some people,

with whom the illness was very advanced, die. I am going
to narrate some of the most incredible cases that have been
engraved in my memory.

                      TESTIMONY 1
Some 25 years ago, a brother from Argentina, Oscar,
arrived at the GALENO TM in Uruguay. Two large
cancerous tumors had already been removed and he had
a third one, approximately 7 centimeters in diameter,
between the two kidneys. The tumor was not operable, as
it was a very aggressive form of cancer and official medical
science had given him 2 months to live.

When I went to find him at the Maldonado bus terminal,
he did not have the strength to lift a small bag of about 4
kilos. He underwent some of these treatments indicated
by the V.M. GALENO and together with daily one-hour
burials, baths in blue water exposed to the sun for one
hour and works of theurgy, he managed to be cured.

                        TESTIMONY 2
Mrs. Α.Α. from Greece was diagnosed with cancerous
tumors in the breasts, metastases in the lungs and so on.
Grade 4 type of tumors, which is the most aggressive that
exists. They gave her about 3 months to live. After the
tumors in her breasts were removed, she underwent the
rattlesnake treatment and the rest and today, some two
years later, she is alive and cured.

                    TESTIMONY 3
Mrs. A.P. from Greece, in whom they found a cancerous
tumor in the uterus of 22 millimeter size. They told her
they were going to remove it through surgery and for

administrative reasons they gave her an appointment two
months later. She took advantage of that time to take the
rattlesnake treatment and the tumor was almost
completely reduced.

                       CELLULITIS
Rattlesnake. Royal jelly.
Gently massage the affected area with rosemary oil.

                          BRAIN
Gotu kola or centella asiatica.
Foods containing phosphorus, such as walnuts, almonds,
peanuts, sunflower seeds, sesame seeds, cereals, lentils,
salmon, cod, sardines, tuna, chocolate.
Phosphorus supplements.
Works with the punktas of the ether.

                         SCIATIC
The person suffering from this disease must perform an
exercise, in which he raises his leg so that a right angle is
formed with the knee, and in this position he executes a
few kicks in the air continuously. This exercise greatly
relieves sciatica pain and pain behind the knees, if there is
any.

                     CHOLESTEROL
Soy lecithin.
Mistletoe tincture.
Raw garlic. Onion and dandelion salads.
TRINAMIL, 4 tablespoons per day, half an hour before
meals.



                         SPINE
All problems of the spine, vertebrae, impingement,
herniated discs can be cured with Medical Theurgy.

              SPINE, WAIST, LEGS, FEET
Sometimes the pain in the spine, waist, legs and feet can
be due to being overweight.

Other times, it may happen that when the person walks he
does not support the soles of the feet correctly and that a
diagnosis is needed in order to make corrective soles. (Flat
feet, clubbed feet, bunions, etc.)

           ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION
When the person lives in a place where there is a lot of
pollution and environmental contamination, they should
consume fresh raw onions in their meals to help cleansing,
purification and the general functioning of the lungs.

           HEART, CIRCULATORY SYSTEM
Rosemary infusion.
Mistletoe tincture.
The practice with the crystal ball heals the heart.

                     VITAL BODY
Use transparent quartz, as they channel the energy and
force of the photons of the SUN and therefore recharge,
heal and energize the vital body.

Steam baths and immersion baths, with aromatic herbs,
especially rue, sage and rosemary.




Avoid transgenic foods as much as possible, since they
give mass to the body but have no shakti potential, so that
when the person eats them he gains weight but has no
energy or vitality.

Avoid hybrid or grafted foods, since they have lost their
vital part.

Avoid foods that have been irradiated in order to be
preserved in favorable conditions, since they cause
damage to the body's electromagnetic energy, with later
having consequences on the physical part.

Rosemary infusion.

                     ASTRAL BODY
Burn rue, sage, rosemary, and juniper twigs and berries
around the physical body to cleanse the astral body of all
negative force or elements.

                   MENTAL BODY
Good classical music helps to cleanse the mental body.

    CARE OF THE BODY IN APOCALYPTIC TIMES
Approximately 20 years ago V.M. LAKHSMI gave the
following recommendations for these times that we are
currently living in, where the physical, electromagnetic
and psychological contamination that exists has damaged
the vital body of our Planet and has affected the vital body
of each one of us:




   ● Do not expose yourself to the sun's rays, without
     covering your head.
   ● Do not stay up late.
   ● Do not consume canned foods.
   ● Reduce the consumption of soft drinks.
   ● Avoid foods that are too salty.
   ● Do not consume foods with colorings.
   ● Do not use drugs that alter gastrointestinal function
     (pancreas, liver, kidneys).
   ● Use a lot of lemon (especially in juices in the
     morning).
   ● Use an infusion of aromatic herbs.
   ● Use whole grains as much as possible.
   ● Use as much natural Vitamin C and A, which act as
     antioxidants in the body.
   ● Drink a lot of liquids.
   ● Avoid stress as much as possible.

                      DEPRESSION
Boil 30 grams of Passionflower in 1 liter of water. Drink 5
glasses per day until healed.
As explained by the V.M. GALENO in his book " NOTES
ON DETOXIFICATION". Have as much contact with
Nature as possible (rivers, mountains, ocean) for
prolonged periods.

Walk daily, and if it can be done in Nature, so much the
better. Place your feet on the ground without socks, for
half an hour a day.




The Magic of the Roses, recommended by the V.M.
SAMAEL in his book “Treatise on Occult Medicine and
Practical Magic.”

Place a pink quartz on the solar plexus and take slow, deep
breaths.

Perform numerous prayers to the BEING, to the DIVINE
MOTHER, to the MOST SACRED HOLY SPIRIT, to LORD
ANUBIS and the 42 JUDGES OF THE DIVINE LAW and
to the VENERABLE MASTERS OF MEDICINE, asking for
forgiveness for faults committed and for help to cure the
hormonal system and fundamentally restore the normal
production of serotonin.

You can magnetize a glass of water and ask the MOST
SACRED HOLY SPIRIT to deposit in the water the healing
substances that allow the curing of the sick person. The
patient drinks the water with great faith. (This technique
works for any disease).

           PURIFICATION OF THE BLOOD

                  FORMULA 1
DRENADOR, 2 tablespoons diluted in water, three times
a day.

                 FORMULA 2
Consume TRINAMIL, 4 tablespoons per day, half an hour
before meals.




                       FORMULA 3
Steam baths (HAMMAM), alternated with cold water
showers, 3 minutes each, 3 times. In total 3 steam baths
and 3 cold showers. If the vapors have aromatic herbs, all
the better. This is known as “washing the blood” and can
be used in treating every kind of disease.

                       DIABETES
Boil in water equal parts of walnut leaves, eucalyptus and
avocado. Take three glasses per day.
Control emotions. Do not eat flour or sweets.

                       DIARRHEA
Chamomile infusion. Eat rice, apples and drink plenty of
water to replace the loss. Take activated vegetable carbon.

The V.M. SAMAEL says that “Mama” Matías cured severe
diarrhea with water and stove ash. Mix the ash with the
water, let it rest for a while, stir again and give it to the sick
person to drink.

                 TEETH AND MOLARS
For toothache you can use clove tincture or chew clove
directly, which has sedative effects.

You can also use a magic formula that consists of looking
at the affected tooth of the patient, while he looks away,
and pronouncing the mantra ONOS AGNES to the
patient, while simultaneously making the sign of the cross
with your head. If the operator has faith the pain is gone
almost instantly.

To strengthen the teeth use OVICALCIO.

To clean and whiten teeth naturally, gently rub fresh sage
leaves on them.

                    DIGESTION
To promote digestion and especially when there is
indigestion and digestive problems of all kinds,
DIGESTIVO is blessed.

Urotherapy (100 ml of the first morning urine is taken),
serves to cure digestive problems.

                 NATURAL DIURETICS
Horsetail. Pellitory. Rice. Caper. Cucumber. Mushrooms.
Peas. Watermelon. Lemon juice.

                 HEADACHE AT NIGHT
Many times this is due to lack of oxygen. A window
should be left open in the room where you sleep or if it is
very cold, in an adjoining room to renew the air.

            GENERAL PAINS IN WOMEN
This is avoided when they stop bathing during their
period. Do not eat acid fruits and avoid meat. They can
wash with warm water, locally.

  MUSCLE ACHE, TENDONS, BODY STIFFNESS
Magnesium, Vitamin B complex (B-50).

                   ECZEMA
DRENADOR. External application of aloe gel.




              UNBALANCED EMOTIONS
When there are severe emotional crises or emotional
imbalances, the person can place a pink quartz on the solar
plexus and take slow, deep breaths.

                 BLEEDING GUMS
Consume vitamin K through raw green leafy salads.
Watercress. Lemon juice.

          GUMS AND ORAL CONDITIONS
Swish with a solution of salt dissolved in warm water to
which is added a little hydrogen peroxide 3% of 10
volumes. After the swishes, the water should not be
swallowed, it should be expelled from the mouth. Gently
rubbing fresh sage leaves strengthens the gums.

Use toothpaste that contains, among other ingredients,
fennel, propolis, aloe, calendula, essential oil of tea tree
and eucalyptus.

                      ENERGIZER
The plant called MORINGA is a great energizer, due to the
large amount and concentration of minerals, vitamins,
essential amino acids, antioxidants and fiber. It also helps
control blood sugar and cholesterol levels.

                 NEGATIVE ENERGIES
Place in a bag the following three stones: amethyst, black
onyx and goldstone, to protect from negative vibrations
and energies.

The person can use hematite rings which have the
property of absorbing negative energies. These rings

accumulate these energies until they break on their own,
when they are already highly charged. Then we replace
the ring with a new one.

                   PYRESTATIC ENERGIES
Due to the electromagnetic pollution that exists today on
our Planet from the indiscriminate proliferation of cell
phones, computers, televisions, photocopiers, fluorescent
light tubes, etc., people are charged with an energy that
the Master's call pyrestatic. This energy, as it accumulates,
produces a certain disorder in the physical body, and
when it reaches a high point, it can produce states of
hysteria.. There is only one way to eliminate these energies
and that is to completely remove your shoes (shoes and
socks) and place the soles of your feet on the ground or on
the grass for 1 hour, at least once a week, for example it
could be several times for half an hour each or for as long
as possible. In this case, according to the principles of
electricity, it is like placing a cable (the physical body) on
the ground (the Planet).

                       EPILEPSY
The patient must place a pentagram on the wall above his
bed and must wear another pentagram around his neck.

               MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS
Consume large amounts of Magnesium, Vitamin B
Complex, Vitamin E, Calcium, Phosphorus, nuts (walnuts,
almonds, hazelnuts, peanuts).




                       STOMACH
For stomach aches and upset stomachs we recommend the
use of boldo tincture or artichoke tincture. Chamomile tea
can also be used for abdominal pain.

                    CONSTIPATION
Drink 2 liters of water per day.
1 magnesium tablet of 200 mg daily.
Consume 7 prunes per day.
Substitute white flour with whole wheat bread.
Include foods that contain fiber in your diet.

                         STRESS
Contact with nature.
Take off your shoes and put your bare feet on the ground
for half an hour each day.
Relaxation.
Meditation.
Prayer.
Use technology only when strictly necessary.

              FIBROMA IN THE UTERUS
            AND CYSTS IN THE OVARIES
“Shark cartilage to dry it out (2 capsules of 500 milligrams
three times a day).

Simultaneously take 1 liter per day of horsetail infusion,
walnut shell, jacaranda, manna ash (fraxinus ornus),
sarsaparilla. The infusion could also be prepared with cold
water.

After a month or two of taking the shark cartilage, you can
take the rattlesnake or loquat milk to expel it.

For the loquat milk: take the seeds, about 10, split them
and remove the pit that is inside (that is, the seed), blend
it and drink it. The pit is obviously discarded”.

                    FEVER IN THE BODY
Fever itself is not a disease, but a manifestation of diseases
that must be diagnosed and treated. When the fever is
high and it is necessary to bring it down quickly, a
decoction is prepared by boiling lemon seeds. The patient
drinks it and goes to bed, warmly covered.

  INNER FEVER, DIGESTIVE SYSTEM, INTESTINES,
                     DISSOLVES FAT
A gel-like solution is made with flax seeds as follows: boil
a liter of water. Remove it from the heat and let it stand for
two minutes. A handful of flaxseeds are placed in the
water and allowed to stand overnight. In the morning it is
filtered and the gel is used as a regular drink throughout
the day.

                FRIGIDITY IN WOMEN
Pollen, Vitamin E, Magnesium, Selenium.

                     THROAT, PAINS
Propolis tincture is sprayed to the affected area.

                 INTESTINAL GASSES
Star anise decoction on an empty stomach.
Chew food well.
A shot of Endocrine Tonic in the morning (helps the
production of the enzymes necessary to digest food, thus
significantly reducing intestinal gas).

         ENDOCRINE GLANDS, VITALITY
One or two shots daily of the Endocrine Tonic.

 BLEEDING, NOSE BLEEDING, AND BLEEDING IN
                        WOMEN
Consume vitamin K through raw green leafy salads.
Horsetail and rue infusion.

                    HEMORRHOIDS
Take horse chestnut in capsules.
Apply ice to the affected area.
Eliminate spicy foods, coffee and alcohol until the problem
passes.

                        HERNIAS
Plasters of the plant comfrey (symphytum officinalis) on
the hernia.

                          LIVER

                       FORMULA 1
The liver is cured with the infusion of the five plants for a
diseased liver: Boldo (Peumus Boldo), Lemon Verbena
(Simaba Cedron, Lippia Citriodora), root of the plant called
Velvetleaf (Cissampelos Pareira), Carqueja leaves (Baccharis
Crispa) and Spiny Cocklebur (Xanthium Spinosum). These
plants are boiled and three glasses are drunk daily, one
before each meal.

                       FORMULA 2
A decoction of 15 grams of agave leaf and 3 grams of
wormwood is prepared in a liter of water and one liter of
this preparation is taken per day divided into three doses.
It is done for 1 month.
                     FORMULA 3
Vitamin B complex supplements.
Fresh dandelion salads help cleanse the liver.
Bee honey promotes the work of the liver.

                  HYPOTHYROIDISM
Seaweed.
Pollen.
ENDOCRINE TONIC.

                 HYPERTHYROIDISM
Apply a lead plate to the goiter for 90 days.

                 FUNGI IN THE LUNGS,
                LIVER, BRAIN, KIDNEYS
V.M. LAKHSMI explained that there would be some
diseases that will include some species of fungi in the
lungs, liver, kidneys, and brain. They are not going to
know how to cure them, since it is going to be a new
disease. However, the Master gave a very simple formula
based on some natural elements that do not have any type
of contraindication and cure this strange disease:

Chop two purple onions, 7 cloves of creole garlic, and add
the juice of 3 lemons that are not grafted. Sugar is added
to it and it is left to stand during the night. Every morning
the liquid that appears in the preparation is collected, 3
tablespoons of liquefied aloe (the inner part) are added,
without water. When getting up, the person drinks a cup
of cow's milk, for example at 7 in the morning. After 15
minutes, a glass of the preparation obtained is drunk
without taking anything for breakfast. At 3 hours a glass


of rosemary decoction is drunk, which is an essential plant
to heal the liver. This formula also works for tuberculosis.

                     TESTIMONY 1
Some years ago they discovered dark spots on the lungs of
a young girl from Athens, Κ.Κ. She visited many doctors
and hospitals in different countries and they could not
make a diagnosis, let alone any treatment. She was cured
with this formula.

                        TESTIMONY 2
Another young girl from the Island of Crete, E.T. was
admitted to the hospital with very high fever and a liver
problem which greatly increased in size. They could not
find the cause and the medicines they gave her had no
effect. It healed in less than a week with this formula.

        SEXUAL IMPOTENCE IN THE MAN
Boil a quarter of a goat's testicle in milk and drink
sweetened with honey.

              URINARY INCONTINENCE
Rue tea.

              INFECTIONS IN GENERAL
Raw garlic, onion and lemon.
Urotherapy (take 100 ml of the first urine in the morning).

                  URINARY INFECTIONS
They are cured by taking decoctions of pellitory (Parietaria
Officinalis), horsetail, sage and rosemary. Consume fresh
raw garlic, which is a powerful antibiotic.



                       IMMUNITY
Drink your own urine (urotherapy). Take 100 ml of the
first morning urine. It is used for all kinds of viruses or
diseases caused by bacteria.

 INSOMNIA, ANXIETY, NERVOUSNESS, HYSTERIA
Infusion of lemon balm, linden, passionflower, orange leaf
with 30 drops of valerian tincture. If you cannot obtain all
the plants, use those that you can.
It is not convenient for these patients to smoke, or drink
coffee and alcoholic beverages.
Control impressions, since these diseases feed on
spectacles that cause anger and fear.


                           BOWELS
For illnesses of the intestines VITALVIN can be used,
especially when the weather is cold. It is taken in shots,
one shot per day when the ailment appears and when
there is an illness it could be up to 2 or 3 shots per day.

To detoxify the intestines, activated charcoal capsules
have the property of absorbing all the toxins that are in the
intestine and also of absorbing gasses.

    LARVAE IN THE VITAL AND ASTRAL BODY
They are purified with aromatic plant baths, such as sage,
rue, wormwood, juniper, mint, mugwort or artemisa
vulgaris.

Use theurgy essence after the daily shower on the coccyx,
nape and below the navel.


   SEXUAL LARVAE AND NEGATIVE ENERGIES
The sexual larvae that may adhere to the vital body and
the astral body disintegrate with benzoin incense.
Also, have a lot of mental hygiene, educate the eyes and
use theurgy essence after showering daily on the coccyx,
nape and below the navel.

                      LAXATIVE
Rhubarb. Cascara buckthorn, cascara sagrada or
bearberry. Senna leaves.
They are used only when necessary, not as something
regular.

                EVIL EYE ON CHILDREN
Children can be protected from the evil eye with corals,
gold and jet crystals.

         SPOTS ON THE FACE OR HANDS
Apply lemon juice. Leave for 20 minutes and wash gently
with water.

                        MEMORY
To improve memory, orange juice or grapefruit juice and
ground almonds with honey are included for breakfast.
The treatment is carried out for a few months.

           MIGRAINES AND HEADACHES
Head washes with verbena decoction to which vinegar is
added, as hot as possible.

                      NEURALGIA
Three daily glasses of linden infusion, orange leaves and
add 15 drops of valerian tincture. Apply hot cloths with


the decoction of verbena with vinegar to the aching area,
as hot as you can stand.

                         OBESITY
Do not eat flours, starches or sweets.
Walk briskly, for half an hour a day.

                   PLUGGED EARS
Wax plugs in the ears can be removed by placing a little
warm glycerin in the plugged ear.

              FEMALE SEXUAL ORGANS
                IRREGULAR PERIODS
Ground grape seeds.
Vitamin E.
Pollen.
Watercress salads.
For abruptly suspended periods use rue.

                          STYES
A golden ring is rubbed on a cloth or clothing to warm it
up a bit and gently applied to the sty.

 OSTEOPOROSIS, ARTHRITIS, LACK OF CALCIUM
                 IN THE BONES
The OVICALCIO.
Shark cartilage.

       PANCREAS, LIVER, GALLSTONES
The PANACEA.

                   FEMALE PERIOD
To prolong the age during which women have their period
they should consume:

Bee pollen, chickpea flour, wheat germs, magnesium,
calcium, phosphorus.

Rue decoction     normalizes    abnormal   and   delayed
menstruation.

               BEE OR WASP STINGS
Mud poultices on the area where the sting is.

                           SKIN
For all skin problems, VITAMIN E is wonderful.
Zinc supplements.
The following can be applied to the skin where the
problem is:
Balsam oil (macerated in olive oil). Olive oil. Calendula
cream. Aloe gel.
Take DRENADOR (2 tablespoons of soup, three times a
day).
Do not expose yourself too much to the Sun and even less
so in the hours when it is strongest.

              NOCTURNAL POLLUTIONS
Transmute the sexual energies every day through
PRANAYAMA.
Do physical exercise, take brisk walks where you have to
make an effort.
Periodic baths in sanative springs.
Have a lot of mental hygiene during the day.
Educate the sense of sight in regards to lust.
Before going to sleep, spread chamomile oil on the
genitals.
Do not sleep with your body being too hot.
Take cold water baths.

You can also take a capsule of ground eucalyptus leaves
before going to sleep, as eucalyptus is an elemental that
belongs to the lunar ray and it calms the fire.

                      POSSESSION
Incense of rue and sage.
Conjuration of the 4 Elements
Conjuration of the 7 Geniuses.
Cleansing of the aura and the affected areas of the body
with the magic sword of the operator theurgist.
All of the above with the aim of expelling the disturbing
entity from the body of the patient.
Petitions to the V.M. SAMAEL AUN WEOR to expel the
entity from that person and to not allow it to return into
that body.

                   SEXUAL ENHANCERS
Rattlesnake. Shark cartilage. Royal jelly. Vitamin B
complex. Ginger. Aloe with honey. A quarter of a goat
testicle boiled in milk. Purslane.

One of the best aphrodisiacs is rest, because a tired or
stressed person cannot function properly in the sexual
areas.

And another very important detail is that there needs to
be a loving treatment throughout the day between the
couple, because without it sexual functions are inhibited.

         SEXUAL ENHANCER FOR WOMEN
Bee pollen. Ground grape seeds. Vitamin E. Magnesium.
Selenium. Phosphorus. Ginseng. Injectable Complegel
(Vitamin B plus phosphorus).

              HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE
Consume fresh raw garlic, mistletoe tincture and eat foods
without salt.

                       PROSTATE
For prostate problems, zinc, selenium and vitamin E
capsules are taken, and the following formula can be
prepared:
We place in a glass container to macerate for 21 days:
● 1 liter of white wine.
● 1 head of purple garlic, minced.
● 3 sprigs of rosemary (very green, with flowers).
● 1 ground nutmeg.
● 1 bunch of very ripe black grapes.
After those 21 days, you begin taking 1 shot in the
morning and another at night.

To reduce inflammation of the prostate, you can use
watercress salads.

                     SUNSCREEN
Cream made with beeswax and sesame oil and at the time
of applying a few drops of lemon.

                        PSORIASIS
This is a disease that has its origin in the emotions,
therefore, the patient must take care of the emotional state,
depression and above all stress, and in order to be cured
an effort must be made to transform impressions, feed the
emotional center with superior things, classical music,
reading of philosophical works, walks in Nature, avoiding
nervous tensions, disordered emotions.


Do not drink coffee or alcoholic beverages nor eat salty
foods, refined sugars, and avoid medications that contain
Acetylsalicylic Acid.

Take 3 daily glasses of melissa, lemon grass, with a few
drops of Valerian tincture.

Eat salads of lettuce, carrots, beets and lots of grapes and
apples.

Apply calendula cream macerated in olive oil to the
affected areas.

                       LUNGS
The plant called lungwort or pulmonaria is used for all
diseases of the lungs.

        RADIATION AND ATOMIC POLLUTION
Natural formula against radiation and atomic
contamination:
● 1 bottle of honey
● ½ bottle of lemon juice
● 7 tablespoons of brewer's yeast
● 15 tablespoons of bee pollen
Stir well (without using metal), in a clay or wooden pot,
until the pollen dissolves.
Children, give 1 tablespoon daily.
Adults take 3 tablespoons daily.
It is used for any reaction on the skin. The same is applied
as an ointment, but do not expose it to sunlight.




                 CELLULAR RENEWAL
                  EXPEL DEAD CELLS
Treatments with the Photo-Electric Chamber for Cellular
Renewal, (MARECE), which is found in the TM GALENO
in the Italian Alps. This Chamber has the power to expel
dead cells from the body.
Rattlesnake treatments.

                   COLDS AND FLU
Drink eucalyptus leaf tea with lemon and honey, very hot,
and go to a warm bed to produce sweating.
Vitamin C.
Echinacea tincture or tea.

                NERVOUS RELAXANTS
Valerian tincture.
Infusions of linden, orange tree leaves, lemon balm,
passionflower, can be prepared with those that are
obtained.

                    REVITALIZERS
The VITALVIN.
THE ENDOCRINE TONIC.
Mix of honey, pollen and royal jelly.
Transparent quartz.
Rosemary infusion.
Sunflower seeds.

  BODY RIGIDITY, MUSCLE PAINS, TENDONS
Magnesium and vitamin B complex (B-50).




                      SICK KIDNEYS
Parietaria officinalis or pellitory of the wall and horsetail
decoctions.

               KNEES AND MENISCUS
They are cured with potato peel. Fresh potato skins are
placed on the affected area, wrapped with a cloth and left
to act overnight, for several days, until healed.

                      CHILBLAINS
Alternate baths of cold and hot water should be taken in
the area where the chilblains are.
Urinating on the area where the problem is also helps
healing.

 THRUSH IN THE MOUTH, APHTHAE, APHTHOUS
                        STOMATITIS
A little salt is placed on the affected area.

                       SINUSITIS
Inhale the vapors through the nose from the decoction of
sage, arnica and eucalyptus, 1 hour daily, for 8 days.

 TORTICOLIS, CONTRACTURES AND MUSCULAR
                          PAIN
A bar of sulfur is applied to the affected area, which we
slide, massaging gently.

                         COUGH
12 drops of grapefruit seed extract, dissolved in a glass of
water, up to 3 times a day, makes coughs disappear very
quickly.



                   TRIGLYCERIDES
Consume fish oil, omega 3, 6, 9.

               TUMORS OF ANY KIND
Rattlesnake Capsules. One capsule every hour, while the
patient is awake, until healed.
Shark cartilage. 2 -3 capsules 3 times a day, away from
meals.
Horsetail decoction in running water.

                     GASTRIC ULCER
Avoid foods that can cause acidity, such as meat, cheese,
coffee, soft drinks, chocolate, white sugar, refined flour,
canned food.
Avoid disordered emotions.
3 daily glasses of ribwort plantain decoction or plantago
lanceolata with a capsule of charcoal.
Flax seed water.

                   VARICOSE VEINS
This is cured with horse chestnut and witch hazel.

             VARICES IN THE TESTICLES
Rub the affected area with chamomile oil.

          BLADDER AND URINARY TRACT
Horse tail.

                        WARTS
Apply fig milk on the warts.

                     EYE VISION
To improve eye vision in general, it is necessary to exercise
the muscles that surround the eyes, which over time

become more rigid and begin to hinder vision. For this we
are going to deliver a series of very simple exercises that
allow you to reactivate and exercise those muscles.

                      EXERCISE 1
The following design is used to perform the exercise. It
should be printed on cardboard or thick paper, in
dimensions of 12 X 7 centimeters.




Take the paper with the right hand and place it at a
distance of about 30-40 centimeters, at eye level. Fix the
eyes at the center of the circles and begin to move the
paper towards the eyes until it touches the face. At a
specific moment as you approach it you begin to see 3
circles instead of the two that there are. This movement is
done for 10 minutes. This stimulates convergent vision.


                      EXERCISE 2
Take the paper with the right hand and place it at a
distance of about 30-40 centimeters, at eye level. Fix the

eyes above the paper at a distance of about 3 meters.
Possibly 3 circles are seen from the beginning. Begin to
move the paper towards the eyes until touching the face,
always keeping the eyes on a point on the paper 3 meters
away. Move the paper up to 3 centimeters before the face.
This movement is done for 10 minutes. This stimulates
divergent vision, that is, to the sides.

                       EXERCISES 3
These exercises are for gymnastics with the eyes. You must
follow the lines and arrows with your eyes.




                     EXERCISES 4
Exert gentle pressure on the eyeball with the tips of the
index and middle fingers. Press the eyeball gently, so as to
not feel pain.
Then gently press the following points with your index
finger twice each.




    VITALITY AND ASSIMILATION OF FOOD
 TO PROMOTE THE PRODUCTION OF DIGESTIVE
                 ENZYMES

                      FORMULA 1
To improve the assimilation of food, through the
production of the necessary enzymes that the body needs,
grains of wheat or barley or corn are used, or all three
together. We roast the grains gently in the oven. Once
roasted, we grind them until they turn into powder and
then consume them with salads, soups, yogurt, etc.



                        FORMULA 2

                       VITAL WATER
We place in a glass container, grains of wheat, barley or
corn, cover with water and leave it inside a cupboard
overnight. The next morning we change the water and let
it with the moisture, and repeat the procedure of washing
the grains and letting them stand with the moisture, twice
a day. We always keep them covered in a cupboard until
they germinate. Once the grains have germinated, add a
little water and boil them for 15 minutes. Then we put
them in the blender until they become homogeneous. Let
it ferment for 1 or 2 days, if the weather is hot in the fridge
and if it's winter outside. You can consume two glasses a
day and can be sweetened with honey.

                        FORMULA 3
Endocrine tonic.




 PART TWO

PHILOSOPHY OF
  MEDICINE




            CHAPTER 2
   KARMA, ILLNESS AND HEALING
V.M. LAKHSMI tells us that Medicine is a word derived
from the Golden Language which means: Measure of Life
that corresponds to each being.

The first question that every sick person should ask
themselves is: Why does someone become ill?

Here, we enter an area of Medicine which is the
PHILOSOPHY OF MEDICINE. To put it more plainly, it
is the analysis of why illnesses occur.

It is evident that when a disease appears there is an
organic, biological and cellular imbalance in the body in
which something is not operating or functioning
optimally.

V.M. SAMAEL says that there are 5 causes of disease. We
could also say, without fear of being mistaken, that in
order for a person to become ill, there must be a violation
of the law and of the natural principles of life.

When we say that there must be a violation of the law, we
refer to the laws of God, of the Creator, which determine
the conditions for the expression of LIFE.

When a person violates these laws and his own body, the
underlying result is illness.



In other words, when a person is sick, it is the
manifestation of the result of having violated any of the
Creator's laws. That is, what we know in Gnostic studies
as KARMA.

KARMA is not a punishment, but rather a mechanism
used by the DIVINE LAW in order for us to learn. This is
because a strange phenomenon occurs in the human
being, where it often does not have the ability to learn
from what occurs to others and therefore only learns from
the occurrences that happen to itself.

Therefore, we can say that KARMA is not only not a
punishment, but is in fact the MEDICINE OF THE SOUL.
It is a tool that the DIVINE LAW utilizes, so that we
HUMANS can learn, repent and then correct our mistakes,
in order to be able to walk the path of the PURIFICATION
of our BODIES and SOULS. Therefore, in this way one day
we will be able to incarnate the SPIRIT and later be able to
attain final LIBERATION and enter the ABSOLUTE,
converted into PARAMARTASATYAS.

Through this short reflection, we realize that to cure
ourselves of a disease or to live healthy lives and not
become sick anymore, we must stop violating the Law. If
we have already made mistakes, we must repent and
dedicate ourselves to paying and amending that karma, so
that we have the right to be healthy and so that life can
express itself with all its splendor in our physical bodies.

The next question that a person who is sick should ask
themselves is: Why do they want to be cured?

To analyze the reason for the disease that a person wishes
to be cured of, why does the person want to be cured?

Because, it does not make much sense for a person who
has become sick due to breaking the Law or from having
unconsciously attacked and harmed their own physical
body and then wanting to be cured only to then continue
doing the same things that led them to become sick in the
first place. That is, to go on and continue sinning and
breaking the Law.

Dear reader, does it seem logical to you that the
Hierarchies of the DIVINE LAW and the MASTERS OF
MEDICINE help a person become cured, so that this
person can go on repeating the same mistake that led them
to become sick in the first place? This person who is
suffering from that disease because they violated one or
more laws, and therefore are suffering from a karma that
is being executed so that they can reflect and understand
their mistakes in order to correct them.

There would be no logic inherent in this, because there
would be no learning taking place that the DIVINE LAW
attempts to provide that person through that disease.

Let us give a simple example, so that what we are saying
is understandable in a clear and profound way.
Suppose a person smokes very much and due to this they
begin to suffer from lung disorders and diseases,
including even lung cancer.




Would it make sense for the person to be completely cured
of these ailments, so that once cured they would return to
smoking in the same way?

Is it logical that a person who fornicates and becomes sick
with the corresponding ailment, is cured and then
continues fornicating and wasting their most precious
energies in the wrong way?

Is it logical that a person who becomes sick from abusing
food or alcohol is cured, so that later they can continue
abusing those very things?

Is it logical that a person who suffers from emotional or
nervous imbalances due to their greed or envy is cured so
they can go on and continue thinking and feeling in that
way?

Is it logical that a person who becomes sick due to their
violence is cured and can then continue being violent?

And so on and so forth. With these arguments we realize
that if diseases appear because there have been violations
of the Law, therefore people cannot be cured if they do not
stop violating those laws that led them to become sick in
the first place.

A clear example of what we are saying is that many times
the treatments that are given to the patient to become
cured include dietary changes and changes in habits, so
that they allow that person to stop violating certain laws


and to stop attacking the physical body through certain
harmful behaviors or foods.

The law of KARMA has such great intelligence that it
damages the organs that one used to violate the Law, or
the organs related to the psychological defect that caused
the violation of the law.

This is a superior intelligence that utilizes an intelligent
mechanism so that we humans can correct our mistakes,
purify ourselves and in this way move towards the
encounter with our REAL BEING, with our INNER
MASTER and be able to have that wonderful encounter
with the TRUTH, with FREEDOM, with PEACE and with
LOVE.

Another very interesting aspect in relation to the disease
and the treatment, medicine, or the cure is something I had
the grace to understand a long time ago. This is that a
medicine that generically cures an illness can often work
for one person, but will not for another.

For example, person X has a problem with the disease Y,
and they know that this disease is typically cured with
plant Z, but when taking that medicine, perhaps the plant
may not not work for that person and does not cure them.

I have understood that each person has the right to access
the exact medicine that cures the illness that they have, at
each moment, when they have already paid the karma
which they had to pay through that illness.


This is why when someone becomes sick, they should
think of how to pay the karma. This can be done either
through service to Humanity and by helping other sick
people, or in some way where they are something for
others, in such a way that they can acquire the necessary
merits in order to cancel that KARMA. This will help them
to be able to be cured.

I would like at this moment to narrate as an example
something that happened to me a few years ago.

As long as I can remember I have always had with this
current physical body certain skin problems, such as
extremely dry skin. This occurred specifically in the
summertime where the skin on the top of my feet would
come out due to sweating. At the slightest friction on that
part of the body the skin came off.

A few years ago, I lived in the city of Athens, where in the
summer it got very hot and I began to suffer from this
issue where the skin on the top of my feet started falling
off. Gradually it started to get more intense and it spread
to the soles of my feet and the inside of my hands around
the wrists and the palms. The skin fell off in those areas
when it was hot and left the flesh in those areas exposed.

The skin would regenerate itself in a few days, but in the
slightest heat, it would form blisters and would fall off
once more.

As I always do, I started utilizing all the natural medicines
indicated by the Venerable Masters for skin issues, such as

aloe, zinc pastilles, olive oil, balsam oil, calendula cream
with beeswax, and all kinds of healing creams. I also used
baby powder. While I was in the apartment, I had the air
conditioning on all the time, so there would be no heat on
my hands or feet in order to avoid the sweat that made my
skin fall off. I went outside as little as possible to avoid the
heat, but the problem remained.

After a few months had passed with the flesh of my hands
and feet exposed, I decided to consult a dermatologist.

When the doctor saw my hands and feet, in a matter of
seconds, she hastily diagnosed me with a localized
dermatitis, informed me that it was genetic and told me
that there was no cure for my affliction. She recommended
that I stay away from the heat and during the months of
April and May when it would start to get hot, that I would
need to apply some creams from the pharmacy, which she
prescribed for me. These creams contained certain
corticosteroids, to minimize the problem, in order to catch
it in time to be able to control the disease.

That year, although the skin disease was already
manifesting, I still applied the creams, which did not
improve the situation much.

When the summer heat ended, after about three months,
by the month of November the skin was completely
regenerated and with the absence of heat returned to
normal.




The following year, I had already mentally prepared
myself to face the problem again, since the doctor had told
me that this disease was genetic, it had no cure, and that
the only thing that could be done was to live in a place or
city that wasn't so hot.

However, something unexpected happened, which is the
case many other times in my life. I decided to take vitamin
E for a period of a few months, since V.M. LAKHSMI has
taught us that to help the physical body in these times it is
good to periodically take vitamin E, vitamin C,
magnesium, selenium and bee pollen.

The Master also explained to us that under normal
conditions it is best to supply these vitamins and minerals
to the body in their natural form through the foods that
contain them. However, at these times, due to the fact that
the vital body of the Planet is very weakened and therefore
affects the vital body of all humans, a supplement of these
elements in their chemical form is necessary.

We can say that there is a cooperation between the natural
form of these elements found in food and the chemically
synthesized elements, complementing and reinforcing
each other, so that the body can assimilate them.

For example, regarding vitamin C, the person should
drink orange, grapefruit or lemon juice and
simultaneously take a 1-gram vitamin C capsule. Taken
together they both help the body assimilate the necessary
amount of vitamin C that they need.


I started taking vitamin E capsules and began to notice
that, when the heat started again, the skin problem on my
hands and feet either vanished completely or was reduced
drastically.

Summer passed, and despite the intense heat, the
manifestation of the disease was very slight, almost
nonexistent.

When the month of October arrived, we moved to live in
the area of Mount Olympus, where the climate is much
milder. Additionally, once we moved here the problem
completely dissipated.

The conclusion is that I needed to go through the entire
process of suffering from this disease, to the point that
they told me it was incurable, trying all kinds of
medicines, creams, pills. At the end, the solution was a
simple one that included vitamin E capsules (which is
blessed for all skin problems).

Therefore, when the LAW of KARMA permitted it, I
found the exact remedy that, in my case, cured that
disease!!!

Again, it’s important to note that the same plant or
medicinal formula may not necessarily cure the same
disease in all people, or the same disease may not
necessarily be cured in a single way, or with a single
medicine. It depends on each case, on each person and
each specific karma.


Even the Masters who have delivered knowledge and
treatises on medicine, not only give occasionally different
formulas for the same disease, but also sometimes the
same Master delivers several different formulas for curing
the same disease.

It is not that the Masters contradict each other, but that this
phenomenon that we are explaining occurs and that it also
has its variants according to the time, to the plants and
formulas available in each place, in each country, and in
each historical context.

I want to quote some teachings that V.M. LAKHSMI
delivered, in relation to these points in his book “Treatise
on Natural Medicine, Palmistry, Iridology and
Symptomatology.”

“As is known by all of us, there are currently
innumerable diseases, which for Official Science are
incurable and which are causing a high number of
DEATHS, PAIN AND SUFFERING. The cause of these
is unknown.

But about which we Gnostics know some, such as:
A. Karma
B. The environment we live in
C. Nutrition
D. Medicines that we take that contain a high degree of
    toxic and poisonous substances to a certain degree
E.
Healing does not consist of taking many medicines, or
visiting the doctor every week, etc. The cure of a serious
illness can only be achieved by positively taking
advantage of everything that contributes to forming
organic and psychic defenses in us on a daily basis. This
is achieved through meditation, transmutation, mental
hygiene, prayer, listening to classical music, healthy
conversations, self-observation, healthy eating, sleeping
only as much as necessary, not staying up late, being
careful of morbid readings and doing charitable works
every day. This includes, but is not limited to
philanthropy, curing a sick person, visiting a prisoner,
comforting an afflicted person, giving Gnostic
conferences, praying for those who suffer, taking care
not to slander anyone, deeply respecting the private life
of others, not destroying anything that has life,
reconciling people who have differences, etc., etc., etc.

Whoever follows these recommendations can be sure
that healing, no matter how difficult it may seem, can be
achieved. Because if it is a Karma, these norms allow the
acquisition of a credit from the Divine Law, and the
healing does not delay in coming. If it is a common
disease, the body receives higher vibrations, which will
allow it to counteract the harmful virus, and the result
will be the healing”.

               V.M. LAHSMI DAIMON

Also, in one of his Courses on Medicine, the Venerable
Master explained the specific IMPEDIMENTS of the
Biological Man:

10% by poor nutrition
10% by poor respiration
30% by inner chatter

20% by a sedentary life
20% by organic diseases (gasses, constipation, etc...)
3% by poor hygiene
7% by getting up from bed late

To end this chapter, I want to illustrate the topic of karma,
illness, and healing with an anecdote from something that
happened to me about 20 years ago.

Since I was very young in this existence, I have had
myopia and astigmatism, and therefore, I needed to use
glasses, which were first framed and then contact lenses.

The use of glasses was sometimes a bit burdensome. They
did not provide sufficient peripheral vision and made
some tasks difficult. Therefore, I started having the idea of
possibly performing a laser operation to correct these
vision impairments. This is something that is fast, has
almost no side effects after the operation, is economically
accessible and in most cases the result is very satisfactory.

So, faced with these reflections, I asked myself. “Why not
do it” Immediately, however, the esoteric aspect of the
situation came to mind, the matter of karma, of the illness
and of a possible immediate cure with a simple laser
surgery.

I asked myself. “How is it possible that with a simple
surgery I can be cured so quickly of something that I have
had for many years due to karma?”




At that moment, I did not have an exact and concrete
answer to these concerns, so I decided to consult my
Master.

At that time, there was going to be an International
Gnostic Convivence in the Monastery LUMEN DE
LUMINE in Venezuela, and since we could not travel
because we had to attend the activities of the Uruguayan
Monastery, we took advantage of the fact that the V.M.
GALENO was traveling to Venezuela, to ask him if he
could consult the V.M. LAKHSMI on my behalf.

V.M. GALENO replied that of course he could. I then
asked him to ask V.M. LAKHSMI, if he could offer me
some advice regarding the laser myopia operation and if
the Master thought it was convenient to do so or any other
pertinent advice regarding it.

V.M. LAKHSMI, as always, responded with great wisdom
and stated that he himself had myopia and wore glasses.

Then he explained to V.M. GALENO, that in those cases,
it could be a bit dangerous to "erase" a disease through
surgery, because the karma remaining to be paid through
that disease, could reappear through another disease that
could perhaps be even more difficult for us, for our life
and for the spiritual work that we have to do.

We could say that in this case, myopia is something that
can be endured without there being significant
impediments to daily life and spiritual work and that if we
remove that disease as a vehicle of karma, another one

could appear that might make life or the path more
difficult, perhaps even much more than before. One
would have to be awakened to know and evaluate these
aspects with precision.

What we want to say is that sometimes it is better to suffer
from a known disease that is "under control" and that does
not prevent us from living and doing the work, than try to
make it disappear without having the merits for a cure,
with the risk that Karma reappears in a different way,
worsening the situation we were originally in.

Simultaneously, it is important to clarify another point of
view of these aspects and something that V.M. GALENO
has comprehended by interacting with so many sick
people requesting healing.

The Master told me that he had often seen patients who
came to ask him for advice, who prayed for healing,
attended medical theurgy works in the Medicine Temples
of Nature and that sometimes the situation led them to a
surgical operation.

He had understood that sometimes, in order for healing to
take place, the solution was surgery and that there was no
other way. It was necessary for the patient to do this as
part of his treatment, because otherwise he could not be
cured.

This is why it is important to take into account both
aspects. Not being fanatical in one way or the other, and
always listening to the voice of the consciousness that

expresses itself in our hearts. Also, that intuition will show
us the way to make the best decision.

We end this chapter with a teaching of the V.M. SAMAEL:

“When man obeys the Law, he cannot become sick.
Illness comes from disobedience of the Law. When the
seven bodies, as if they were seven ‘I’s, want to act
separately, the result is illness. When all the acts of our
daily life, even the most insignificant, are the living
expression of the GLORIAN in us, then we will no
longer become sick.”

               V.M. SAMAEL AUN WEOR




                 CHAPTER 3
             ELEMENTOTHERAPY
Continuing with the development of aspects that are
related to the PHILOSOPHY OF MEDICINE, we are going
to analyze in this chapter some topics that have to do with
the spiritual life of medicinal plants.

The first thing we want to clarify is that when working
with medicinal plants, we must bear in mind that this does
not only pertain to the physical part that we see and touch,
but rather that each plant has a spiritual part as well that
infuses it with the life and the science that governs it in the
vegetal world.

It has already been scientifically proven through many
laboratory experiments that plants have feelings,
intelligence, feel pain and that they react to the different
environments that surround them, because they have a
manifestation of consciousness in their kingdom.

That spiritual part in Gnostic studies is called the
“essence” and in the case of the plant kingdom, the
essence is called "ELEMENTAL".

The elemental of each plant, in its passage through the
plant kingdom, is instructed at the different Inner Temples
of Nature in the wisdom corresponding to its species, by
the Devas of Nature.

The evolution of the essence, since it leaves the AIN, the
ABSOLUTE, the AEON 13, performs a pilgrimage through
the different kingdoms of Nature, passing through the
mineral, plant, and animal kingdoms, until reaching the
human or humanoid kingdom, with the purpose of
carrying out an apprenticeship that will allow it to one day
to become a MAN and later, through tremendous super-
efforts, to become a SUPERMAN.

The objective of this journey for each essence is to become
conscious of its happiness, which it has in the ABSOLUTE,
but is not conscious of.

The interesting thing about this phenomenon is that when
our essence passes through the plant kingdom, taking in
that kingdom many bodies of different plants and perhaps
trees, it learns in each species within which it takes a
physical body, an impressive amount of knowledge of that
kingdom.

For example, the science that governs the essence in that
kingdom, what each plant is for, what diseases it can cure,
what substances the plant has, and also the way to relate
with the elemental of a specific plant or, in other words,
the ELEMENTAL RITUAL of each plant.

This knowledge, which is vast, is very difficult for the
essence of the person, upon reaching the human kingdom,
to remember consciously, but the tremendous wisdom
that CREATION and NATURE have, deposits this
knowledge in a part of our INNER BEING which is called
the ELEMENTAL INTERCESSOR.

THE ELEMENTAL INTERCESSOR, as we said, possesses
the wisdom of all the elementals and their rituals from the
time when our essence evolved in the plant world and, as

the word itself says, is a part of our BEING that helps us
by INTERCEDING for us before the ELEMENTALS of
Nature.

The ELEMENTAL INTERCESSOR has an intelligence and
wisdom that it accumulated during the different passages
of our essence through the plant world that allows us to
operate with plants in an intelligent way through the
elemental of the plant.

It is important to clarify that what heals is not the physical
part of the plant, but its elemental.

Therefore, based on this knowledge, in order to cure any
disease with medicinal plants, we need to know how to
work with their elementals.

In order to explain how to work with elementals, we also
need to analyze the role played by the theurgist or
operator, who is going to use a plant, in order to heal a
person.

The same thing that happens with plants, happens with
people, and the one who heals is not the physical person,
but the spiritual part that is inside that person. That is their
inner BEING.

Actually, the one who heals is GOD, through one of His
expressions that is the MOST SACRED HOLY SPIRIT,
God of Gods and giver of LIFE.

No person can heal if they have not received the grace of
healing from the HOLY SPIRIT.


The true doctor is the one who has been anointed by GOD,
and to whom the HOLY SPIRIT has granted the grace to
HEALING.

V.M. SAMAEL AUN WEOR says this statement regarding
this concept:

“… The “INTIMO” is our FATHER; within us. The
SOUL is the Son, and the HOLY SPIRIT is the sexual
force, called KUNDALINI, symbolized by the snake.
When man has unfolded within his human constitution
this power of the fire, then he is already an authentic
doctor, anointed by GOD. In this way the Divine
"INTIMO" expresses himself through the anointed and
performs amazing healings..."

In other words, in order to cure, it is not enough to have
studied at a University, to know how to recognize an
illness, to know how to diagnose and how to prescribe a
treatment. Something more is needed...

That something more belongs to the philosophy of
medicine and is the issue we are concerned with and are
developing in order to understand what medicine is and
how medicine will be in the near future in the age of
Aquarius.

V.M. PARACELSO says this about that:

“He who can cure illnesses is a doctor. Neither the
Emperors, nor the Popes, nor Colleges, nor the Superior
Schools, can create Doctors. They can create privileges
and make a person who is not a Doctor appear as if he
were. They can give him permission to kill, but they

cannot give him the power to heal and they cannot make
him a true Physician if he has not already been ordained
by GOD”.

And the V.M. SAMAEL clarifies:

"A man may have studied the human organism and its
illnesses theoretically, but this does not entail that he
has the power to heal, because no one can receive this
power from men, but only from GOD."

Based on all these considerations, the procedure for
performing a treatment with a medicinal plant is as
follows:

1. We bless the plant using the middle, index and thumb
fingers of the right hand, forming the sign of the cross over
the plant, while saying: “We bless you, in the name of the
Father, in the name of the Son, in the name of the Holy
Spirit”, and immediately we enclose the plant within a
circle saying: “And in the name of the Tetragrammaton”.

2. The operator asks his INNER BEING to order the
ELEMENTAL INTERCESSOR to perform the elemental
ritual of the plant with which he is working (each plant
species has its own).

3. The ELEMENTAL of the plant is ordered to work
intensely in order to cure the part of the body that is ill and
to bind to that organ, working day and night, until it is
cured.




4. The plant is processed in the appropriate way, either as
infusion, broth, tincture, maceration, juice or food, in
order to ingest it and perform the healing process.

This science of working with the elementals of plants in
order to cure the sick, was baptized by the V.M. SAMAEL
with the name of ELEMENTO THERAPY.

“This science that I baptize with the name of
ELEMENTO THERAPY, THE “ROYAL ART” OF
MEDICAL WISDOM, is as old as the world. One cannot
be a Doctor without being a Magician, nor be a Magician
without being a Doctor. The Gnostic Physician studies
man and the plant, in the triple aspect, of body, soul and
spirit.

“Each plant organism is the body of an elemental of
Nature, as it is called, and it is not the plant that heals,
but the elemental of the plant, its Mantras and
incessantly.

Whoever wants to officiate in the great temple of
Wisdom must know how to manipulate the elemental
creatures of the plants. The same has to be done by those
who want to manage life”.

                 SAMAEL AUN WEOR

With these ideas, little by little we are getting closer and
deeper into what will be the Medicine of the Age of
Aquarius.




           CHAPTER 4
 THE MEDICINE OF AQUARIUS AND
   HOW A SICK PERSON SHOULD
 PROCEED IN ORDER TO BE CURED
Continuing with the study of the PHILOSOPHY OF
MEDICINE, we are going to analyze in this chapter some
topics that will allow us to delve, little by little, into what
is going to be the medicine of the Age of Aquarius.

The question then arises, “how should a person who is
sick proceed when they need to go to the doctor to be
cured?”

The first thing a person must do is trust in their INNER
BEING and ask HIM in conscious prayer to intercede
before the INNER BEING of the Doctor, so that he may be
enlightened and that Doctor can give the correct diagnosis
and also the appropriate treatment and medicines so that
the person can be cured.

(It is because of this point that the Gnostic Physician must
develop clairvoyance and INTUITION to the maximum in
order to be able to make the exact diagnosis and provide
the exact medicine for that illness).

The second is to have FAITH in GOD, in the Doctor and in
the medicine that is going to be taken, making our mind
positive, and trying to help the channeling of the healing.

The patient must get out of his head the idea that he is sick.
The attitude of the person for healing is defining, fighting

for health, wanting to be cured is fundamental so that the
healing can crystallize.

At this point I would like to narrate an anecdote that has
been engraved in my consciousness, as a great lesson in
relation to the willingness of people to heal or not.

Many years ago, while already living in Europe, I
periodically visited my land of birth to see my relatives
and also to have convivences and perform missions in that
country.

In each of the visits, which took place approximately every
1 or 2 years, I conversed quite a bit with one of my
grandmothers who, despite suffering from some illnesses,
especially in recent years, specifically a wound in the leg
that did not heal, she was very feisty and willing to move
on in life.

Despite the fact that the years passed, that she was
approaching the age of 90, and that her vitality was
obviously diminishing little by little, she always
maintained that feisty mentality.

On the last visit in which I saw her alive, something
happened that shocked me and thus the reason for this
narration.

One morning we were conversing in the living room of her
house, when one of her friends came to the house to say
hello.

After the usual greetings, the friend, naturally, asked:
“How are you doing?”
And to my great surprise she replied: “I have given up.
I’m tired of living. I’m not going to fight anymore.”

A few months later, my grandmother disincarnated at the
age of 89 (a natural death or more commonly known as
dying of old age) and one of the last things she said before
losing consciousness was: “How hard it is to be born and
how hard it is to die.”

No less surprising was the case of my other grandmother
who was always characterized by having a very positive
attitude towards life, an attitude of optimism.

She lived with great health and energy until she was 100
years old, periodically walking almost until the end, with
complete mental clarity, and she was also disincarnated by
natural death, because the years that she had to live with
that physical body had expired.

These two cases were decisive for me, in the sense of
learning related to “the patient's attitude regarding life,
regarding illness and regarding healing.”

And the third thing is to be willing to accept the verdict of
the Law and do the will of the Inner Father, because there
is no effect without cause, nor cause without effect. That
is, if the cause has not been eliminated, the effect will
continue.

If the person proceeds in this way, they will be placed in
the best conditions so that there is a union between the
three parts which must participate to produce the healing.



Those three parts that must interact are: the Physician who
must be a channel of GOD and in the form of the HOLY
SPIRIT who is the one that heals, the Patient who must
collaborate positively as we have already explained so that
the strength of the HOLY SPIRIT can act on the disease,
and the GRACE of the HOLY SPIRIT that must be
expressed in both the Doctor and in the patient.

 AE GAE GUF PANCLARA, BE CURED, BE HEALED




               CHAPTER 5
          PREVENTIVE MEDICINE
One of the first things we have to keep in mind when
interacting with illness and healing, is that there are three
HIERARCHIES that are capable of giving or taking life.

Those three HIERARCHIES are: the HOLY SPIRIT, the
DIVINE LAW, through the V.M. ANUBIS and his 42
JUDGES OF KARMA, and the VENERABLE MASTERS
OF MEDICINE.

We have already explained in previous chapters that in
order for a person to be cured, there must be the GRACE
and the STRENGTH of the HOLY SPIRIT, which acts by
depositing in a sick person, if the DIVINE LAW allows it,
something that is called the UNIVERSAL MEDICINE.

The UNIVERSAL MEDICINE is a set of permissions that
must exist so that the healing can crystallize and it is
expressed as a curative force in the patient.

It is necessary to understand that both the Physician as
well as the medicines that will be used in a healing
treatment, are vehicles of the HOLY SPIRIT to be able to
produce the healing, since it is HE who heals.

The one who heals is GOD, in HIS expression as the HOLY
SPIRIT and therefore the DOCTOR must have been
ANOINTED by GOD, so that he can heal and so that the
grace of the HOLY SPIRIT can be expressed through his
person.


The Doctor is a servant of the HOLY SPIRIT and for this
reason the one who cures is the INNER BEING, the
INNER GOD of the Doctor and not the physical person.

The healings through the INNER BEING, are what is
known in esotericism as THEURGY, a topic we will deal
with in the next part of the book.

That is why every authentic Physician acts in perfect
integration with his REAL INNER BEING in order to
become a channel of the forces of LIFE.

In their order, another of the HIERARCHIES that
intervenes in the healing process of a person, are the
Venerable Masters of the DIVINE LAW, ANUBIS and his
42 JUDGES of KARMA, who must evaluate in each case if
the person's actions permit the healing to take place or not.

We have already explained that illness appears due to
imbalances that a person commits when they violate the
natural laws, expressed in the laws of GOD.

Therefore, if an illness appears due to karma, so that a
person has the clues in order to be able to see and reflect
in such a way that they can understand the mistake that
they made, repent and not make it again. It would be
illogical for there to be a cure without paying that karma,
either through pain or through service to others.

But, that pain is what redeems and that through which
often comes the teaching, the reflection, the learning and,
as a final result, the understanding and repentance, which



allow us not only to be healed, but more importantly, to
correct that mistake and never do it again.

In this way, we understand why the Masters of the LAW
of KARMA intervene in healing, since they must give
permission for the person who is sick, due to karma, to be
cured, because the law cannot be violated.

At this point, appears what is called preventive medicine,
in which the person, through a correct relationship with
themselves and with the laws of God, does not produce
violations of the law, and therefore prevents the
appearance of illness.

It is opportune to cite some teachings in this regard from
the V.M. LAKHSMI which say:

“It is known to all of us that illness appears, because in
us have originated organic imbalances and violations of
the Law, causing the body to become ill.

This tells us that every person must collaborate with
himself to prevent the manifestation of the illness. It is
known by all of us that there is a famous phrase which
tells us: "Prevention is better than the cure".

Every person should understand this, trying to prevent
their body from becoming ill. For this it is necessary that
we, Gnostic students, understand the enormous need to
organize our way of thinking, avoiding the fratricidal
struggles that the mind imposes on us.

It is necessary to learn to harmonize our mind and
develop the conscious values of the heart.

It is necessary to learn to control our emotional states in
order to avoid the burning of energy and the disharmony
of our organism.

It is necessary to learn to feed ourselves in a healthy way
in order to prevent this body from becoming ill,
contaminated, and toxified.

It is necessary to learn pranic science in order to charge
our organism with superior forces.

It is necessary to maintain a neat, clean body, taking
advantage of pure water, and exercising in the open air.

It is necessary to listen to classical music daily.

It is necessary to cultivate within us joy and inner peace.

It is necessary to dislodge from within us melancholy
and sadness.

Good reading and healthy conversations are necessary.

Dear Gnostic brother, if you want to get out of the crowd
and walk along the path that God has traced for you,
avoid like the plague vices, bad company and everything
that tries to induce you to violate the Law.

If you want to help humanity or someone in particular,
give them the Christic Message, but do not accompany
anyone in the violation of the Law, in the vices that
deteriorate your consciousness.

Remember that we are humanoids who want to reach the
human state and that this is only possible through the

baptism of wisdom and that if we violate the Law, we
cannot embody wisdom.

It is better to sacrifice vices, passions and ignorance in
one's life than to lose all the lives we have had.

Remember, dear Gnostic brother, that the medicine
which the Doctor gives us, however good it may be,
cannot change our way of thinking, nor can it regenerate
us.

It is necessary that we collaborate with all these details
so that our body obeys the Natural Laws and Medicine.

In the New Age of Aquarius Medicine will make a
complete return to natural means, using first the
prevention of illness and for the cure of those illnesses
that exist we will use Theurgy and Elemental Therapy.
Therefore, it is convenient that all of us take the
initiative to prevent and seek the Medic for the cure,
taking into account that we need to have a close
collaboration with the Medic, with medicine and with
the healing. This consists of the faith that we place in
God, in the Medic and in medicine.

The man or woman who is going to be healed, must
understand that three Graces need to be present in the
healing of a sick person: The Gift of healing that the
Medic must have, the Grace of being cured that the sick
person must have, and the Presence of the Most Sacred
Holy Spirit, Giver of Life, which must be in both.”

Thus, after the DIVINE LAW permits it and there is the
grace of the HOLY SPIRIT for the healing to occur, the

Venerable Masters of Medicine appear as vehicles and
channels of the healing forces, in order to be able to
deposit in the sick person the curative substances that will
help them to heal.

On one occasion, the V.M. LAKHSMI explained to us that
the Venerable Masters of Medicine are charged with
taking the sick persons in the inner worlds to the TEMPLE
OF ALDEN, which is the TEMPLE OF SCIENCE that is
found in the astral world.

He said that at every second of the physical world, they
take thousands of people to that INNER TEMPLE, and
that three things could happen with each sick person.

First, to allow the patient to enter into the TEMPLE. In this
case he is attended by the Masters of Medicine and
subjected to various treatments inside the TEMPLE.

Second, that the DIVINE LAW, due to karma, does not
allow the patient to enter the TEMPLE, but in any case, he
is treated outside the TEMPLE, to help him become cured.

Third, that the DIVINE LAW, due to the karma of the
person, does not allow them to enter the TEMPLE nor to
be treated by the Venerable Masters of Medicine outside
the Temple, and in this case the karma of that person in
that moment determines that they must suffer from that
illness.

To conclude this chapter and within what is Aquarius
Medicine and Preventive Medicine, we want to share with
our readers 5 pieces of advice that the BROTHERS OF

SPACE once gave the V.M. LAKHSMI, in order to survive
in these times:

   1. To improve blood circulation (consume mistletoe
      tincture).
   2. Do a lot of relaxation of the physical body.
   3. A lot of breathing, better respiration.
   4. Chew food very well.
   5. DO NOT give children devices of modern
      technology that put the consciousness to sleep.

To the extent that we stop violating the law, to that extent
we acquire the right to live healthier.




 PART THREE

MEDICAL THEURGY
(SPIRITUAL MEDICINE)




          CHAPTER 6
THEURGY WITH INNER ELEMENTALS
The first thing we must explain is the meaning of the word
THEURGY.

The first syllable THE, is derived from the word Θεός. In
Greek, THEOS means GOD.

URGY, URGO, from the Greek έργο, meaning WORK.

THEURGY is the WORK OF GOD. It is a work or action
where the one who executes, operates, and expresses
himself, is GOD.

So, when a physical person is going to perform a work,
practice or act of THEURGY, they must know the secrets
in order to connect with the part of GOD that is expressed
in that physical body.

The representation or part of GOD that is in a physical
body or, better said, is connected to a physical body, is the
INNER BEING of that person.

Therefore, the THEURGIST is not the physical person, but
the INNER BEING of that person.

It happens then that for all works of THEURGY, the
operator or the physical person, knowing these mysteries,
must invoke their INNER BEING, so that HE can perform
and execute the desired work in the physical world.



It is through the INNER BEING of a person who lives in
the physical world that an act of THEURGY can be
performed.

There are many kinds of THEURGY that can be practiced
in many different areas.

Works of THEURGY can be performed to resolve
something on the physical level, on the emotional level, on
the psychic level, or in many different areas of human life.

When THEURGY is performed to try to cure an illness it
is called MEDICAL THEURGY.

MEDICAL THEURGY is SPIRITUAL MEDICINE.

MEDICAL THERAPY has several different modalities and
in this chapter we are going to study the one that is
performed with the ELEMENTALS of nature that inhabit
the 5 elements.

To    exercise   MEDICAL        THEURGY   with   the
ELEMENTALS of Nature that are found in the INTERIOR
of the human being, it is necessary to know certain
mysteries that we are going to analyze.

Exterior Nature has 5 elements, which are earth, water, air,
fire and ether and their corresponding ELEMENTALS in
each element.

These 5 elements also have an expression within the
human body and their corresponding ELEMENTALS. We
can work with them to produce healing.


The ELEMENTALS or consciousnesses that inhabit the
earth element are called GNOMES and PYGMIES. Those
that inhabit the water element are called UNDINES and
NEREIDS. Those that inhabit the air element are called
SYLPHS and SYLPHIDS. Those that inhabit the FIRE
element are called SALAMANDERS and those that
inhabit the ether element are called PUNKTAS.

Each of the elements with its corresponding
ELEMENTALS governs a specific part of our body.

The EARTH element and therefore the inner GNOMES
and PYGMIES rule the region from the feet to the knees,
as well as all the bones, muscles, tendons. (Yellow color)

The WATER element and therefore the inner UNDINES
and NEREIDS govern the region from the knees to the
coccyx and of course the waters of life, sexual organs and
energy. (White color)

The FIRE element and therefore the inner
SALAMANDERS govern the region from the coccyx to the
heart, that is, the heart, blood, liver, pancreas, intestines,
kidneys, etc. (Red color)

The AIR element and therefore the inner SYLPHS and
SYLPHIDS govern the region from the heart to the
midbrow, lungs, respiratory system, nose, face, etc. (Color
blue)

The ETHER element and therefore the inner PUNKTAS
govern the region from the midbrow to the brain, that is,



the brain itself, neurons, cerebro-spinal system. (Black
color)

Those consciousnesses that we call ELEMENTALS or
CONSCIOUSNESSES of the different elements of Nature,
whether external or internal, are guided and instructed on
their evolutionary path by MASTERS called DEVAS of
NATURE.

The DEVAS of NATURE are MASTERS who are
specialized in these mysteries and who have the MISSION
to guide and instruct the ESSENCES that are evolving in
the different species of the lower kingdoms of evolution.

Thus, each element has a specific DEVA who is its
INSTRUCTOR. One governs the external elementals and
another the inner elementals.

The regents are:

ELEMENT             EXTERNAL            INNER
EARTH               KITICHI             BRAHMA
WATER               VARUNA              NARAYANA
FIRE                AGNI                RUDRA
AIR                 PAVANA              ISHWARA
ETHER               INDRA               SUDASHIVA

Each one of the different ELEMENTALS of the 5 elements,
is commanded with an EXORCISM or magical phrase.




              EXORCISM OF EARTH
     (We command them with the staff in the right hand)

In the name of the Twelve Stones of the Holy City, by the
hidden talismans and by the needle of the magnet that
traverses the world, I conjure you, subterranean workers
of the Earth, obey me in the Name of Christ, by the Power
of Christ, by the Majesty of Christ, Amen.



              EXORCISM OF WATER
 (We command them with a glass of water in the right hand)

In the name of Christ, by the power Christ, by the
majesty of Christ:

Fiat Firmamentum in medium aquarum, et separet aquas
ab aquis, quae superius sicut quae inferius, et quae
inferius sicut quae superius, ad perpetranda miracula rei
unius.

Sol ejus pater est, luna mater et ventus hanc gestavit in
utero suo, ascendit a terra ad coelum et rursus a coelo in
terram descendit.

Exorcizo te, creature aquae, ut sis mihi speculum Dei vivi
in operibus ejus, et fons vitae, et ablutio peccatorum.
Amen.




                EXORCISM OF AIR
(We command them with a feather in the right hand)

Spiritus Dei ferebatur super aquas et inspiravit in faciem
hominis spiraculum vitae. Sit Michael dux meus, et
Sabtabiel servus meus, in luce et per lucem.

Fiat verbum halitus meus et imperabo spiritibus aeris
hujus, et refrenabo equos solis voluntate cordis mei, et
cogitatione mentis meae et nutu oculi dextri.

Exorcizo igitur te, creature aeris, per Pentagrammaton et
in nomine Tetragrammaton, in quibus sunt voluntas
firma et fides recta.

Amen. Sela, fiat. So be it.



                EXORCISM OF FIRE
(We command them with the sword in the right hand)

MICHAEL! King of the Sun and Lightning, SAMAEL!
King of the Volcanoes, ANAEL! Prince of the Astral
Light, assist us in the Name of Christ, by the Power of
Christ, by the Majesty of Christ. Amen.



They also obey a mantram or word of power, which
when pronounced at the appropriate moment, with the
appropriate magical, theurgical formulas, makes them
work to grant us the requested work.


ELEMENT             EXTERNAL             INNER
EARTH               I.A.O.               LA
WATER               M                    VA
FIRE                INRI                 RA
AIR                 H                    YA
ETHER               -                    HA

With all this information in relation to the secrets of the
magic of the elementals, we already have the necessary
elements to be able to explain how to operate in medical
theurgy in order to ask them for the cure of a certain
illness.

I also want to clarify that the explanations of the
procedures that follow are not theoretical, but that we
have practiced them many times with excellent results, in
the healing of a large number of people through natural
medicine.




       MEDICAL THEURGY WITH THE INNER
          ELEMENTALS OF THE BODY

The first thing we must identify is which of the elementals
we are going to work with, depending on the area of the
body where the illness is found.




There are some exceptions, in which the elementals that
we need to use do not depend on the area, but on the
relationship of the organ with the elementals.

For example, illnesses of the bones, muscles, tendons, are
always treated with the gnomes and pygmies of the earth,
regardless of the area where the ailing part is located.


Illnesses related to blood and its impurities are treated
with the fire salamanders, regardless of where the
problem is located.

Once we have detected the element and the inner
elementals with which we are going to work, the Devas,
exorcisms, and mantras corresponding to that element are
automatically determined.

To illustrate the procedure, we are going to do it with a
concrete example and then we will explain how it can be
executed with any case.

     MEDICAL THEURGY WITH THE INNER
   ELEMENTALS FOR PROBLEMS IN THE SPINE

In order to be treated through medical theurgy, problems
of the spine, such as deviations, scoliosis, impingement of
the vertebrae, herniated discs, etc., should be operated
with the gnomes and pygmies of the earth, because these
are illnesses related to the bone system, which is governed
by the inner elementals of the earth element.

1. The patient is placed, as relaxed as possible, in front of
the theurgist (operator).

2. The entire body of the patient is smoked with incense
(especially the area of the spine), by burning a mixture of
frankincense, benzoin, cloves, nutmeg, allspice, cinnamon
and panela or black sugar, in order to remove antagonistic
forces.




3. The theurgist asks his REAL INNER BEING for
assistance so that HE is the one who executes the work of
theurgy.

4. The operator performs magnetic passes from top to
bottom, over the entire body of the patient in order to
remove from their aura all the negative forces it may have,
discharging these energies in a brazier with burning coals,
or on a burning candle. (Before performing these magnetic
passes, the operator must place both bent arms to the sides
of the body, with the palms of the hands facing upwards,
and move them up and down for approximately one
minute, in order to condense the bio-electromagnetic
energy of his aura in the hands).

5. Place the palms of your hands on the organ or part of
the body that is ill, and in that position proceed to invoke
the DEVAS of the earth element as follows:

“My Father, my God, my Lord, you who are my REAL
BEING, my INNER GOD, I ask you, I beg you, with my
soul and with my heart, to invoke for me at this moment
the Gods of Earth: KITICHI, BRAHMA, we invoke you,
we call you, in the name of CHRIST, by the power of
CHRIST, by the majesty of CHRIST, come to us, attend our
call”.

ANTIA DA UNA SASTAZA

KITICHI, BRAHMA, we invoke you, we call you, in the
name of CHRIST, by the power of CHRIST, by the majesty
of CHRIST, come to us, attend our call”.


ANTIA DA UNA SASTAZA

KITICHI, BRAHMA, we invoke you, we call you, in the
name of the FATHER, in the name of the SON and in the
NAME of the HOLY SPIRIT, come to us, attend our call”.

ANTIA DA UNA SASTAZA

5. Once the corresponding Devas have been invoked, they
are asked for permission to work with the corresponding
elementals:

6. “Venerable Masters KITICHI, BRAHMA, we have
invoked you, we have called you, to beg you with our
soul and with our heart, to grant us the power and grace
to order and command the GNOMES and PYGMIES of
the earth, glorious elementals of Nature”.

7. We proceed to recite with force, faith, consciousness
and mysticism, the exorcism of earth:

In the name of the Twelve Stones of the Holy City, by the
hidden talismans and by the needle of the magnet that
traverses the world, I conjure you, subterranean workers
of the Earth, obey me in the Name of Christ, by the
Power of Christ, by to the Majesty of Christ, Amen.

At this moment the patient pronounces the mantra I.A.O.

8. The GNOMES and PYGMIES of the Earth are ordered
to enter into the ill organ or area, and work intensely in
order to cure that problem or illness.



“Gnomes and Pygmies, Gnomes and Pygmies, Gnomes
and Pygmies, we order you, glorious elementals of
Nature, to enter into the physical body and internal
bodies of this person, going to the area of the spine,
vertebrae (or affected area), to heal them, cure them, in
whatever is necessary.”

9. Always keeping the palms of the hands over the
affected area, the mantram LA is pronounced 3 times:

LAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
LAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
LAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

10. Steps 8 and 9 are repeated 3 times.

11. After that, the operator keeps the palms of his hands
over the area affected by the illness, imagining that he fills
that part of the body with energy, imagining that it is
healed, that it is cured, for 5 to 10 minutes.

12. When the operator feels that it suffices, always keeping
the palms of his hands over the sick part of the patient, he
proceeds to invoke the HOLY SPIRIT as follows:

“My Father, my God, my Lord, I beg you with my soul
and with my heart, to deign to invoke the Divine presence
of the MOST SACRED HOLY SPIRIT, God of Gods and
giver of life, we call you, we invoke you, in the name of
CHRIST, by the power of CHRIST, by the majesty of
CHRIST, come to us, attend this call.”

ANTIA DA UNA SASTAZA


MOST SACRED HOLY SPIRIT, God of Gods and giver of
life, we call you, we invoke you, in the name of CHRIST,
by the power of CHRIST, by the majesty of CHRIST, come
here, attend this call.”

ANTIA DA UNA SASTAZA

MOST SACRED HOLY SPIRIT, God of Gods and giver of
life, we call you, we invoke you, in the name of CHRIST,
by the power of CHRIST, by the majesty of CHRIST, come
here, attend this call.”

ANTIA DA UNA SASTAZA

13. Once the invocation has been made, the operator,
always keeping the palms of his hands on the affected
area, says:

"MOST SACRED HOLY SPIRIT, GOD OF GODS AND
GIVER OF LIFE, we have called you, we have invoked
you, to ask you, to beg you, with all the strength of our
soul and our heart, that you deign to deposit the
UNIVERSAL MEDICINE, in the organ or sick part of this
person, so that it heals, so that it heals.

And as if speaking to the ill organ, he says:

“OPEN SESAME.
OPEN SESAME.
OPEN SESAME.

So that the healing forces of UNIVERSAL MEDICINE
penetrate you.


WORK. WORK. WORK.

BE HEALED. BE HEALED. BE HEALED”.

14. This procedure is repeated 3 times.

15. The affected region is blessed:

“We bless you in the name of the FATHER, in the name of
the SON, in the name of the HOLY SPIRIT and in the name
of the MOST HOLY TETRAGRAMMATON”.

16. The patient is “closed” by tracing the magic circle
above his head with the thumb, index and middle fingers
of the right hand three times, while the words of POWER
and PROTECTION are pronounced:

HELION, MELION, TETRAGRAMMATON.

17. We give thanks to the INNER BEING, to the DEVAS of
NATURE, to their ELEMENTALS and to the MOST
SACRED HOLY SPIRIT for the assistance received.




      MEDICAL THEURGY WITH THE INNER
       ELEMENTALS FOR OTHER ILLNESSES
As we explained earlier, this theurgical procedure can be
applied to other illnesses.

It must be detected with which element and elementals to
work, based on the area of the body where the ill part is
located, or the relationship it has with the elements.

Once the element is detected, the Devas, the exorcism and
the corresponding mantras are substituted in points 5 to
10.

For example, to treat a problem in the sexual organs, we
work with the element of water.

To treat problems in the liver area, you work with the fire
element.

To treat nose problems, you work with the air element.

To treat problems in the nervous system, we work with
the points of the ether.

And so on. It is possible to treat an endless number of
illnesses, physical and psychic, with these procedures of
medical theurgy with the elements of Nature.




 THEURGY WITH THE INNER ELEMENTALS WHILE
                          BATHING
Before entering the shower, KITICHI and BRAHMA are
asked to allow us to order and command the GNOMES
AND PYGMIES of the earth, and they are ordered to
cleanse and purify our entire body of negative force and
energies, and to cure us and to heal us, especially to heal
the physical body, bones, muscles, tendons and giving us
agility and elasticity in the body.

When entering the shower, under the water VARUNA
and NARAYANA are asked to allow us to order and send
the UNDINES and NEREIDS of the water and they are
ordered to clean and purify our entire body of negative
strength and energies and to heal us and heal us,
especially the vital body and creative organs and cleanse
and purify our sexual energy and help us in
transmutation.

When we get out of the shower and when we are drying
ourselves, AGNI and RUDRA are asked to allow us to
order and command the SALAMANDERS of the fire and
they are ordered to cleanse and purify our entire body of
negative force and energies and to cure us and heal us,
especially the mental body, digestive system, liver,
kidneys, heart and cleanse and purify our blood.

As soon as we begin to dress, PAVANA and ISHWARA
are asked to allow us to order and command the SYLPHS
and SYLPHIDS of the air, and they are ordered to cleanse
and purify our entire body of negative force and energies
and to cure us and heal us, especially the astral body, the


respiratory system, the lungs and cleanse and purify our
air.

Upon leaving the bath, INDRA and SUDASHIVA are
asked to allow us to order and command the POINTS of
the ether and they are ordered to cleanse and purify our
entire body of force and negative energies and to cure and
heal us, especially the causal body, the brain, the
cerebrospinal system.




            CHAPTER 7
   MEDICAL THEURGY WITH PLANT
           ELEMENTALS
As we already explained in chapter 3 on the mysteries of
ELEMENTO THERAPY, every time we are going to use a
medicinal plant to cure an illness, we must carry out the
work with its ELEMENTAL to request healing, since it is
this one that cures and not the physical part of the plant,
which is simply a vehicle for healing.

In this chapter, we are going to delve a little deeper into
this subject and we are going to study some specific
magical rites, which exist with certain plants to cure some
illnesses of a rather psychic origin.

Each plant has a specific Elemental Ritual, which
sometimes we know exactly, and we can carry out in the
physical world. However, sometimes we do not know and
we would need to ask the Elemental Intercessor, who
knows all the Elemental Rituals and will carry out the
request on our behalf in order to receive the favors of the
plant in question.

   ELEMENTARY MAGIC OF FIQUE OR MAGUEY
I have operated many times with the magic of FIQUE or
MAGUEY (agave plant) and I testify that it serves to
disintegrate the bad thoughts of a person, which lead to
damage, depression, anguish, suicidal ideas, obtuse and
inappropriate behaviors, feelings of hatred, resentment,
revenge, etc. It disintegrates bad thoughts and fortifies
good ones, fights psychological problems, mind

wandering and evil. It also serves to remove all kinds of
negative energies from a person and can be used in case
someone is about to abandon the esoteric path. In this case,
the elemental is asked not only to remove the person's
negative and defeatist thoughts, but also to remove the
people who want to get him out of the way.

               MANNER OF EXECUTION

1. A fique plant is chosen that is as large as possible.

2. The operator draws a circle (from right to left), with his
sword, around the plant, leaving the sick person inside the
circle. This occurs while both are standing in front of the
plant.

3. In case the sick person cannot go to the plant, the
operator can still perform the work of magic, taking into
account that by ordering the elemental to work to
disintegrate the bad thoughts of the person, he will tell
him to move where that person is, no matter the distance.

4. Conjuration of the 4 elements.

5. Conjuration of the 7 Genies.

6. The plant is blessed.

7. The operator asks his INNER BEING to order the
ELEMENTAL INTERCESSOR to carry out the Elemental
Ritual of FIQUE and to order him to cleanse the patient's
physical, vital, astral and mental bodies, removing all
negative and bad energies, the thoughts that are causing
harm and to fortify good thoughts.

8. The operator cuts a sheet of FIQUE, and standing in
front of him, takes the sheet between the palms of the
hands.

9. Pronounce the FIQUE mantra several times:

LIBIB LENONINAS LENONON

10. The elemental is ordered to work intensely on the sick
person to remove negative thoughts and energies. In case
the patient is not present, the elemental is ordered to travel
to where that person is.

11. The elemental is asked to continue working day and
night on that person until he is cured and when he finishes
his work, he returns to the plant.

12. Thanks to the INNER BEING, to the ELEMENTAL
INTERCESSOR, and to the ELEMENTAL of the FIQUE for
all the help received.

     ELEMENTAL MAGIC OF THE LEMON TREE
The most powerful elemental magic work to disintegrate
works of black magic or sorcery is the one performed with
the lemon tree.

To carry out this work, the person or persons affected
(since it can be done to several people at the same time),
must be present at the place where the tree is.

               MANNER OF EXECUTION

1. You must get a lemon tree that is not grafted.


2. The best time to perform this is between 9 and 11 in the
morning.

3. A pentagram is attached to the tree.

4. Near the tree, light a fire, which should be on the outer
side of the circle that the operator will draw, at the shortest
possible distance from the circle.

5. Then place next to the tree (inside the circle), a container
with water, which contains about 5 centimeters of earth or
sand at the bottom.

6. While the operator traces with the tip of his sword,
touching the ground, a protective magic circle around the
lemon tree, until the circle is closed, leaving the fire
outside and the container with water and sand inside. All
the other participants must stay inside the circle, around
the tree, taking it with your right hands somewhere. The
circle starts from the east, and is traced from right to left.

7. No one should leave the protective circle until the work
is finished.

8. Conjuration of the 4 Elements.

9. Conjuration of the 7 Geniuses.

10. The operator asks his INNER BEING to order the
ELEMENTAL INTERCESSOR to perform the Elemental
Ritual of the LEMON TREE.




11. The operator cuts a branch of the LEMON TREE of
approximately 1.5 meters, removes the leaves and cuts it
into 9 pieces.

12. They are buried in groups of 3, in such a way that they
protrude a little above the water, in the container with
water and sand, which is inside the circle, next to the tree,
as follows:




13. The operator takes 9 lemons, 3 at a time.

14. He throws them 1 by 1 into the fire, waiting for each
one to explode. No one should leave the circle until they
explode, and if they do, it means that there is work of black
magic or sorcery.

15. Thanks are given to the INNER BEING, the
ELEMENTAL INTERCESSOR and to the ELEMENTAL of
the LEMON TREE.


16. If the case is serious, the work can be repeated 1 or 2
more times.

17. It is not necessary to request anything specific from the
elemental of the LEMON TREE. The same procedure is
used in the Ritual.

        ELEMENTAL MAGIC OF THE CEDAR
This work serves to receive a very great help in chastity
and in the practice of alchemical transmutation.

An operator is necessary, and it can be done to a single
person or a married couple.

Seek a young cedar tree. Not so young that it will break,
but large enough to support the back (vertebral column)
on the trunk.

The best time to perform this magic is between 3 and 6 in
the morning, which is in the hours of Mercury.

The best day to do it is Friday, which is related to Venus.

Once the tree is found, it is cleaned well below and around
without damaging its branches and roots, so that the place
is clean and pleasant.

The person who is going to do the work must be well
bathed, very clean, practice mental hygiene and take care
of their word and their verb.




         PROCEDURE FOR A SINGLE PERSON

1. The person faces the east, removes the shirt from the
back and uncovers the coccyx, supporting the spine and
the coccyx itself on the cedar.

2. The person places the thumb and index finger in a
triangle between the coccyx and the same tree.




3. The operator makes a wide circle, with his sword on the
ground, holding on to the trunk.

4. Conjuration of the 4 elements.

5. Conjuration of the 7 Genies.

7. The operator places his left hand on the person's left
shoulder. With his right hand he takes the tree and asks
his INNER BEING to order the ELEMENTAL
INTERCESSOR to greet the elemental of the CEDAR and
perform his Elemental Ritual, ordering that elemental to
join in the alchemical work of that person, helping him to
transmute and sublimate the energy, to uncover and
remove from the spine, from the vertebrae, all negative,


luciferic forces. This pact is always made with the hands
on the person and on the tree.

8. The person invokes his DIVINE MOTHER to assist him
in this work, and the MOST SACRED HOLY SPIRIT is
invoked, to intercede before the GENIE OF THE CEDAR,
to order the ELEMENTAL OF THE CEDAR, to integrate
with the coccygeal chakra that activates the sacred fires,
They go up the column, uncovering the canyons and the
vertebrae through which the MOTHER KUNDALINI and
the sacred fires are going to ascend.

9. After this request, pronounce the mantra SSSSSS, for at
least half an hour, imagining that the fire rises from the
coccyx to the brain.

10. It ends with the PATER NOSTER prayer.

11. The operator with a new knife or one used only for
Theurgy, marks where the coccyx is and then removes a
piece of the bark from the tree.

12. The brother tapes it to the prostate and the elemental is
asked every day to strengthen the sphincters to prevent
loss of sexual energy. The shell is used until it dries (about
15 days), taking it out for bathing, etc.

13. The person turns around and while looking at the tree,
hugs it, and feeling with his heart his INNER BEING, his
FATHER, the elemental is asked to assist him from that
moment on in all the moments he needs to transmute the
energy, and that all elementals (incubi, succubus, etc.) that



may interfere with the ascent of its sacred fires be removed
forever.

14. We are giving thanks to the INNER BEING, to the
ELEMENTAL INTERCESSOR, to the DIVINE MOTHER,
to the MOST SACRED HOLY SPIRIT, to the GENII OF
THE CEDAR and to the ELEMENTAL of the CEDAR for
the help received.

15. To get fully effective results you should do the job 7
times.

             PROCEDURE FOR A COUPLE

The procedure is similar to the previous one, but with
some minor variations and clarifications.

The same tree is used for the two members of the couple,
who will carry out the work at the same time.

An operator is not needed, the work can be done directly
by the couple.

After the Conjuration of the 4 Elements and the Seven
Genies, the two, man and woman, holding hands in
"chain", crossed, making the Holy Eight, invoke the Most
Sacred Holy Spirit and ask him to intercede before the
Genius of the Cedar, to assist them in the alchemical work.

The man sits next to the East, in such a way that the back
and the coccyx without clothes, should be touching the
tree.

The woman with the same procedure sits on the West side.

Both must place the spine without clothing against the
cedar.

They continue with the procedures described above from
point 6 to the end.

       ELEMENTAL MAGIC OF ARTEMISIA
Mugwort magic can be used to ask the elemental for what
one needs.

It takes place on Good Friday at 12 noon.

1. The operator stands in front of the plant with his face
facing east.

2. Make a magic circle around the plant.

3. He blesses the plant and kneels.

4. He asks his INNER BEING to order the ELEMENTAL
INTERCESSOR to perform the Elemental Ritual of
ARTEMISIA.

5. He will pray, asking the ELEMENTAL for the desired
service and then he will uproot the plant, always with his
face towards the East. He will then take it home.

6. The plant is hung from the ceiling of the house, facing
east, so that it is left with the roots up and the branches
down.

6. The power of this plant and of this magic will provide
its owner with what he has asked for.


The magic of ARTEMISIA can be used to help a person
who is cold in the TEACHING.

To carry out the work, the Bible is consulted to see if there
is permission from the DIVINE LAW to do so.

It can be operated any day, and the ELEMENTAL is asked
to spiritually help the person who is in difficulty.

           ELEMENTAL MAGIC OF ROSES
The magic of roses serves to cure moral pain and moral
illnesses.

The V.M. SAMAEL regarding this magic in his book
TREATISE ON OCCULT MEDICINE AND PRACTICAL
MAGIC instructs:

“On a table three crystal glasses filled with pure water are
placed, and in each glass a rose.

These glasses will be placed forming a triangle, to the
North, East and West.

Each glass must be blessed by the interested party, and he
will drink three glasses of this rose water daily, in the
following order:

Before breakfast, the glass of the East.

Before lunch, the glass of the North.

And before the meal, the glass of the West.



This treatment must be accompanied by a sincere plea to
the INTIMATE and to the WHITE FRATERNITY, so that
they help him to get out of the moral pain in which he
finds himself.

With this formula sustained for several days, any "moral
pain" will be cured, however serious it may be.

    ELEMENTAL MAGIC OF ALOE OR ZABILA
V.M. SAMAEL then goes on to say in his book IGNEOUS
ROSE:

“The elementals of these plants have power over all
things, and through elemental magic we can use these
elementals for all kinds of white magic works.

Before taking the plant, you first have to water it to baptize
it.

The plant will be blessed and the following Gnostic prayer
will be recited: "I believe in the Son, the Cosmic Christ, the
powerful astral mediation that links our physical
personality with the supreme immanence of the SOLAR
FATHER."

A small piece of silver metal should be hung from the
plant.

The plant should then be hung on the wall of our house,
so that with the splendor of the Christic light that it attracts
from the sun, it illuminates and bathes the entire
environment of the house, filling us with light and luck.



By means of the power of the will, we will be able to order
the elemental of the aloe to execute the magical work that
we wish, and then this elemental will obey immediately.

Undoubtedly, orders will be given daily to the elemental
to force it to work.

The Mantram of this elemental is the vowel "M".

You can help a patient with moral pain, depression, or
anguish with the elemental of aloe.

To do this, the theurgist will move to where there is a large
aloe plant, and after blessing it, he will order the elemental
to move to where the sick person is and fill him with peace
and harmony. The procedure is repeated for 7 days.

    ELEMENTAL MAGIC OF THE POMEGRANATE
The elemental of this plant is related to home and
friendship and can be used whenever you need to
establish friendly relationships, restore harmony in
homes, sow harmony in families, help cure a depressive or
distressed person or with moral pain as well.

It also serves to help a lost soul so that it can return to the
path of light.

When you work for peace, for universal brotherhood, for
the dignity of homes, you work with the elemental magic
of pomegranates.




               MANNER OF EXECUTION

Bless the tree, walk in a circle around it, pronouncing the
mantras VAGO O A EGO, ordering the elemental to work
on the person or persons according to our desired goals.

     ELEMENTAL MAGIC OF FRANKINCENSE
Applied on the forehead, it makes the headache that
comes from mental worry disappear.

Smoke: mystical, devotional recollection. It serves to
prepare and harmonize the environment for relaxation
practices, meditation, and all kinds of theurgy and
liturgical work.

In ancient times the sick were wrapped in this smoke to
cure them in the temples.

Marriage engagement reunions.

Mantram: ALUMINO.

         ELEMENTAL MAGIC OF CINNAMON
This is related to joy, vitality, optimism, and activity.

It is related to the elemental forces that restore and comfort
our lives.

You can use cinnamon sticks or powder for incense sticks
as well as cinnamon essential oil, being very careful not to
apply it directly to the skin, because it burns.

          ELEMENTAL MAGIC OF MINT
Peppermint is related to Nature's akashic archives.

To remember past lives, you can vocalize the mantras of
this plant: RAOM GAOM, 1 hour a day for two months.




               CHAPTER 8
           WORKS OF CLEANSING
Many times it happens that life in big cities or certain
places that are not recommended to frequent, gradually
load the physical, vital and astral body with certain heavy
fluids, negative energies and astral larvae, which over
time end up making the person sick or creates favorable
conditions for the person to become sick.

That is why it is very important, to stay healthy, to know
a series of works and methods that allow each person to
cleanse themselves of all those negative fluids that stick to
the physical body and the aura of each person.

  CLEANSING WITH AROMATIC PLANT BATHS
Aromatic plants are used in baths to cleanse the physical
body and the vital body of all those fluids and negative
energies that we mentioned earlier.

Herbal baths act on the physical body while the aroma and
steam of the plants act on the vital body.

That is why it is very important when preparing this to not
let the water come to a boil, since the aromas necessary for
cleaning the body would be lost through evaporation.

It can be made with mint, rue, sage, rosemary,
wormwood, basil, mugwort, guarumo, weeping willow,
and hand of god. Those that are obtained are used.




               MANNER OF EXECUTION

1. Each plant is blessed separately and the INNER BEING
is asked to order the ELEMENTAL INTERCESSOR to
perform the Elemental Ritual of each plant, ordering each
ELEMENTAL to work intensely to cleanse the physical
body and inner bodies of all negative morbid larva,
energies and fluids that may be causing any physical or
psychic problems or any illnesses.

2. The plants are placed in a container with burning coals
so that they produce abundant smoke.

3. The smoke from the plants is received around the whole
body so that it reaches all its parts.

       CLEANING WITH BENZOIN INCENSE
Benzoin incense serves to cleanse the larvae of the mental
body, especially all negative entities and forces related to
lust.

              CLEANING WITH SULFUR
The powdered sulfur placed in the shoes helps to remove
and disintegrate all kinds of larvae and negative energies.

            CLEANING WITH PERFUMES
The perfumes and essential oils of rose, skipenard,
heliotrope and cinnamon cleanse and help the mental
body not to be besieged by larvae, incubus, succubus.




   CLEANSING OF THE AURA WITH MAGNETIC
                        PASSES
Forces, negative energies and morbid fluids that may be
causing harm to a person can be removed through
magnetic passes.

               MANNER OF EXECUTION

1. Prepare a container with burning coals or, failing that, a
candle.

2. The operator must remove from his hands, arms and
body, any metal object that is visible, because if he does
not do it, the negative energies that he is going to extract
are deposited in the metal objects that he has on his body.

3. The operator stands in front of the patient and while
keeping his arms bent, at a right angle, to the body, with
the palms of the hands facing up, begins to swing them up
and down for about 2 minutes.

4. This procedure allows a very large quantity of vital
energy to be concentrated in the palms of the hands.

5. To test that the hands are already “loaded” enough, they
are turned downwards and if the procedure has been
carried out correctly, a little heat should be felt in the
hands, and a kind of tingling, due to the circulation of vital
energy.

6. Begin to make magnetic passes from top to bottom on
the patient's aura (without touching them), while



imagining that with each step you are removing all the
negative energies that are in the person's aura.

7. Download those energies on the burning coals or on the
candle.

8. It goes through the whole body, head, neck, arms,
hands, trunk, back, chest, belly, legs and feet.

9. At all times you must deposit the extracted fluids on the
burning coals.

                   EGG CLEANING
It is one of the most powerful cleanings that exist to
remove all kinds of negative forces or energies from a
person. This work has inner repercussions.

The operator must protect himself, if possible, by wearing
a woolen garment (insulating), a pentagram around his
neck, a crucifix and a copper belt with a pentagram on the
front.

Before starting the procedure, all metallic objects should
be removed from your hands and wrist.

                     WAY TO OPERATE

1. A good fire is lit.

2. Conjuration of the 4 Elements.

3. Conjuration of the 7 Genies.



4. The operator asks his REAL BEING for assistance and
protection to carry out the work.

5. The person to whom the work is going to be done stands
in the position of the microcosmic star, as close as possible
to the fire, without getting burned.

6. The operator cleanses his aura with the edge of the
sword, without aiming at him. The sword passes through
his aura, without touching his body, and the extracted
fluids are discharged into the fire.

7. Then the operator cleanses the physical body and the
aura with a sprig of rue, sage and mugwort, previously
ritualized, gently hitting and “sweeping” the entire body.

8. At the end of that step, the operator throws the plants
into the fire.

9. Next the operator takes an organic egg (fecundated) and
throws it from one hand to the other close to the body of
the person being cleaned, in such a way that on its journey
through the air, the egg picks up the negative fluids. The
egg also slides through the person's body. All areas are
covered.

10. The egg is thrown into the fire, and immediately, on
top of the egg, a handful of powdered sulfur is thrown.

11. The operator lights a candle and with it makes a circle
over the patient's head, saying: HELION MELION
TETRAGRAMATON.



12. The person then closes and is simultaneously blessed
with the candle.

13. The operator gives the lighted candle to the person,
who remains meditating with the candle in his hands,
while the procedure is repeated to others.

14. Then the operator kneels in front of the fire and cleans
himself with the sword, and with the bouquet of plants, in
the same way as described above.

13. He then cleans himself with 2 eggs and throws them
into the fire with sulfur. Then he asks the elementals of the
plants and the fire to cleanse it and remove all negative
energy.

The operator is loaded with everything he is taking out, so
it cannot be done very often or to many people
simultaneously.

  CLEANSING THE GERMS OF THE EGO IN THE
                       CENTERS
Negative people leave the place where they are
impregnated. So too the ego leaves the centers
impregnated with residue. To remove them, while in
meditation, seek out the Divine Mother.

       PREPARING THE BODY FOR MAGIC
The 7 POWERS must be invoked daily with the mantra
MUERISIRANCA, to prepare the body for MAGIC.




You can also work with the ARCHANGEL GABRIEL or
with the VIRGIN OF CARMEN, asking them to give us the
grace to exercise MAGIC.

   WORK FOR THE HARMONY OF THE PERSON
This work was delivered by the V.M. LAKHSMI in
BRAZIL on May 1997.

The physical body has to have a tonality to exercise magic.

                PREPARING THE BODY

1- Be an orderly person in everything you do.

2- Take care of food.

3- Each person (the couple can do it together), must begin
to prepare the body with aromatic substances, for the
handling of magic and theurgy.

                         RECIPE

• A bathtub (if possible for individual use, except for the
couple who can use it), or otherwise a tub where you can
sit, with water at a comfortable temperature.

• The plants can be prepared in an infusion or in juice
(crushed), but we recommend doing it in juice, since in an
infusion many spiritual substances escape from the plants.
The plants are the following: Artemisia, Rue, Wormwood,
Guarumo (leaves), Mint, Basil, Marjoram, Hand of GOD,
Orange leaves, Soursop or graviola, Roses (petals, infused
for 2 or 3 minutes if they are roses) of cultivation by
chemicals, if they are from the garden the procedure is

similar to the other plants). If you are unable to acquire all
of them then you can make due with the ones you have.

• This preparation is added to the bath. You can also add
all the flowers that are used in the ALTAR. These flowers
should not be thrown away since they are charged with a
very high voltage energy.

• Add cinnamon. The one that is bought in stores has been
distilled in ether and is useless, unless it has been prepared
in alcohol. If you don't get that one, then cook a little
cinnamon and add it to the juice of plants.

                         PROCESS

• It is advisable that the person has taken a shower and
cleaned their body well before submerging, and if they
cannot submerge, then they would have the water
standing up from the head. In this way it does not dry out
and you would need to wait a few minutes for the body to
reabsorb the moisture (that gives great strength to the vital
body).

• This is done as healing. Three times a week at least on
Monday, Wednesday and Friday and at night before going
to bed.

• Then an incense is prepared with incense and benzoin
(storax).

• Placing a pentagram with these words: "ELOHIM
ADONAI METRATON" (these sacred names harmonize
the person and move negative forces away from their
bedroom that can cause harm), can be done on a sheet of
steel, stainless, which is cleaned and those words are
painted around it. Then it is placed in a place such as the
window or where there can be access to negative forces
that impregnates the atmosphere of the house and of the
family.

• Then drink rue tea one hour before going to bed to
neutralize the energies and toxic and harmful substances
of the liver. Rue belongs to the Fire Salamanders.

• Meditate at night - Meditation is the bread of the Wise.
Meditate to connect with the BEING.

• After the prayer that the Gnostic does before going to
sleep he says: "I AM WITH GOD AND NOTHING OR
NOBODY CAN CAUSE ME HARM". These words act as
a spell.

• When you feel that you are falling asleep, and are in that
drowsy state, while surrendering to sleep, mentally or
verbally repeat the following phrase: "FATHER, INTO
YOUR HANDS I COMMIT MY SPIRIT." Sleep is a little
death so at the moment of dying we actually recite that
same phrase.

• When put into practice these teachings give the person
the ease of being able to enter the mysteries of nature, so
that the elementals, whom she commands, prepare our
bodies.

                 RECOMMENDATIONS:

• The use of barbiturates or any allopathic medicine that
encourages sleep is harmful to this work.
• People who cannot sleep should drink linden, orange
tea, valerian, or soursop.

• Synthetic clothing and rubber shoes also do not help.

• As much as you can, walk barefoot in the countryside
and on the beach. Have a lot of contact with the earth so
that the body discharges the energies that it accumulates.
• Get foot massages to stimulate magnetic points and
nerves (brain neurons).




               CHAPTER 9
          THEURGY FOR HEALING
In this chapter, we are going to discuss a number of
theurgical works that can be used to perform various
types of healing.

     THEURGY TO RECONSTITUTE THE AURA
This is for a person who is very weak. This instantly
renews him.

1. Not thinking.

2. Reconstitute by making magnetic passes. Not
necessarily a cleaning, but to reconstitute the aura from
top to bottom, until one feels that the vital field of that
person is reconstituted.

3. Then he puts his hands on the person's ears with the
fingers facing forward of the face and the vortices of the
operator's hands make contact with the vortices of the
person's temple, until he feels that he saturates the person
with energy.

4. Then run the thumbs over the shoulder blades (person's
shoulder blade) massaging from top to bottom and bottom
to top.

5. When it’s enough, send him to bed.




    THEURGY FOR MINOR HEALTH ILLNESSES
The person sits. The operator puts on some essential oils.
Without touching magnetic passes are made and the
negative energies are thrown into the candle or embers.

Head passes down.

He places his right hand on his head and asks the Being to
intercede with the Holy Spirit to harmonize the center and
remove negative energies from the patient.

This also helps with defeatism, depression, etc.

   THEURGY WITH MAGNETIC INSUFFLATIONS
This is similar to the magnetic pass to remove negative
energies but in reverse. The operator, through breathing,
breathes pranic energy into the patient on the affected part
of the body.

To do this, prana is exhaled on a handkerchief and the
handkerchief is applied to the affected area.

V.M. SAMAEL AUN WEOER instructs us very accurately
about this technique in his book Treatise on Occult
Medicine and Practical Magic:

“There are words to heal the sick, and the magnetism
combined with the word is amazing. With high current
passes, that is, from the head to the feet, the morbid fluids
of the illness must be removed, and as they are subtracted,
they will be burned in the fire of a lighted candle or in
charcoal embers. Then PRANA or magnetic vitality
should be given on the solar plexus and on the affected

organs, with slow magnetic passes and with magnetic
insufflations.

Magnetic insufflations are performed by inhaling oxygen
and Prana and after mentally charging it with one's own
vitality, it should be exhaled on a handkerchief and
applied to the patient's affected organs, accompanying the
act of a powerful concentration of will and imagination,
united in vibrant harmony. The doctor will imagine the
patient swimming in a blue sea and will pronounce the
following Mantrams or magic words:

"AE GAE GUF PANCLARA AUM TAT SAT PAN TAN
PAZ".

AE GAE, is pronounced gutturally, uniting the A with the
E in a single sound vocalized with the throat. The
monosyllable AUM is pronounced AOM. The mouth
opens wide with the A, rounds off with the O and closes
with the M, like this:

AAAAAAAAAOOOOOOOOMMMMMMMM.

All these Mantrams have healing powers.

      THEURGY TO REJUVENATE THE FACE
The person can self-apply magnetic insufflations on their
own face in order to rejuvenate it, give it freshness, shine
and beauty.

To do this, well concentrated, he rubs the palms of his
hands, blows into them, inhaling air and prana, imagining



that he fills them with energy and a powerful blue light,
and then gently massages his own face.

THEURGY WITH HEALING WORDS (MANTRAMS)
Again the V.M. SAMAEL states in the same book:

“Ignore that the verb has a triple pronunciation, and that
it has three norms: verbal, mental and conscious. It can be
articulated with the creative larynx, it can be vocalized
with thought, and it can be vocalized with the superlative
consciousness of being.

In our book in preparation, entitled «LOGOS,
MANTRAM, TEURGIA», we talk about the great creative
word and teach humanity the secrets of the creative word.
There are words that heal and words that kill.

The doctor's words are life or death for the patient and in
this lies a large part of the responsibility of doctors,
whether they use the verb for constructive or destructive
purposes. No sick person should ever be disconsolate or
evicted.

The patient should always be told: "You are getting
better", "you are healing", "your healing is progressing",
"your illness is disappearing", "you will be well soon", etc.,
etc.

These phrases are recorded in the patient's subconscious,
and consequently, he will heal quickly. No matter how
serious a patient’s illness is or seems, they should never
be told that their state of health is delicate, dangerous,
etc., because with those negative and destructive words

the death of someone is accelerated by speaking
negatively.

On the contrary, with words of hope and strength, the
illness can be totally improved and healed.

The Masters of the White Lodge should be invoked for
the healing of the sick.

The Venerable Master of the White Lodge (Huiracocha)
stamped certain Mantrams in some Gnostic Rituals to
evoke the Masters. Listed below are a few examples:

E.U.O.E I.A.O.
ISCHYRON ATHANATON
AVROTON E.U.O.E.
I. A.O. SABAOTH

And others like these:

KIRIE MITRAS
KIRIE PHALE
AGIOS, AGIOS, etc., etc.

The Mantras AGIOS, above all, have the power to open the
entire atmosphere for the Master to come. These
Mantrams are very powerful, but there are some simpler
and shorter ones to invoke the Masters as well. These
Mantras are the following:

"ANTIA DA UNA SASTAZA".

These Mantrams must be pronounced by singing them,
and after articulating them, the name of the Master to be

invoked is pronounced three times. The sick will be able
to call Master Hippocrates, father of medicine, Galeno,
Paracelsus, or Hermes Trismegistus, etc., etc.

The vowels I.E.O.U.A have great healing powers as well.
The vowel "I" helps the blood rise to the head, heals the
organs of the brain and develops clairvoyance. The vowel
"E" helps the blood rise to the larynx, cures illnesses of the
larynx and develops the magic ear. The vowel "O" carries
blood to the heart, heals the heart, and awakens our sense
of intuition. The vowel "U" carries blood to the solar
plexus, awakens our sense of telepathy and heals our
stomach. The vowel "A" carries blood to the lungs, giving
us the power to remember our past reincarnations while
healing them."

    THEURGY WITH LETTER TO THE TEMPLE OF
                         ALDEN
A letter is written, in pencil, on parchment paper
(architect), to the TEMPLE OF ALDEN, the TEMPLE of
SCIENCE, addressed to the Venerable Masters of
Medicine, to request the cure of the illness that needs to be
eradicated.

The letter is burned in coals lit with incense so that its
astral counterpart reaches that TEMPLE.

The procedure can be repeated as many times as
necessary.

The verdict of the LAW must be accepted.



             THEURGY FOR HEALING
      WITH PARCHMENT UNDER THE PILLOW
Get some parchments (architect paper) and with a pencil
write down the name of the person in need, physically or
spiritually.

Ask God and the Being according to the Law and the
Father.

Say: "So-and-so has such a problem, etc." Put the piece of
paper under the pillow, lie down on your back, and put
your hand behind you, towards the pillow: "I ask in the
name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit, of my
Mother Devi Kundalini, that so-and-so be assisted".

The next day, if the Law allows it, the case is improved or
fixed.

If the case is mild do this for 1 night. If it is more or less
difficult, 3 nights. If it is serious, 7 nights.

Burn the parchment at the end of the work (last day). If
there are merits, the person is cured or the problem is
removed.

      THEURGY WITH THE V.M. KALUSUANGA
V.M. Kalusuanga is the ruler of the 7 powers, which are 7
unfoldings of the 7 Logos and acts in each one of us as
intelligent atoms in the work.

We can ask V.M. Kalusuanga for help to organize the
work, healing, help for the law of 7 in each of us.


      THEURGY WITH THE V.M. SAMAEL FOR
                 SPIRITUAL HEALING
To carry out this theurgy, 3 candles are lit, and a glass of
water is placed.

The V.M. SAMAEL is asked for the healing that is needed,
concentrating for half an hour on the Master and on the
request for healing.

After that the water is drunk with great faith.

Master SAMAEL himself says of this practice in his book
Beyond Death:

“It is evident that in that water we deposit certain
substances that, when taken to the interior of the
organism, usually carry out wonderful cures.

Various masters such as Paracelsus, Hilarion, Saint
Raphael and some others cooperate in the healing work.
We do not always indicate a specific concentration in
Samael. "I have a lot of work"; we also point out any of the
other teachers for the same purpose.

The important thing is that the sick have faith because it
works miracles; as Christ has said:

"Have faith as a mustard seed and you will move
mountains."

Faith is a wonderful solar power with which many
wonders can be achieved. Our spiritual healing system
does not quarrel with doctors. Everyone can have faith in
our methods and consult their doctor in the world.
     THEURGY FOR ADDICTIONS TO DRUGS,
             ALCOHOL, TECHNOLOGY
V.M. MICHAEL is a specialist in helping people who want
to end a dependency, whether physical or psychological.

In order to overcome this type of problem, the person
must first want to do it by their own will and
understanding. Second, in order to achieve it, they must
have a reason to fight for in life, for which they want to
live in harmony and without that type of addiction, which
normally ruins people's lives in every way including
physically, mentally, socially, etc.

               MANNER OF EXECUTION

1. The work is done for 7 consecutive Fridays at 5 in the
morning.

2. Every Friday, the person writes a letter in pencil, on
parchment paper (architect paper) addressed to V.M.
MICHAEL, to the TEMPLE OF THE SUN.

2. Spiritual help is requested for so-and-so, so that he
receives assistance to have willpower, and all the
necessary help to be able to overcome and definitively end
dependency (drugs, alcohol, technology, video games,
computers, etc.), that is ruining his life.

4. The letter is perfumed with rose, lilac and heliotrope
essences (those that can be obtained) and it is burned with
great faith with a little incense.




5. The astral counterpart of the letter arrives at the Temple
of the SUN, and is received by the V.M. MICHAEL who
will act according to the LAW and the merits of the person.

6. The work can be done by the interested person himself
or by a theurgist (operator), who wants to help that
person.

7. If the interested person does so, they must offer
something in return, such as service to Humanity, help to
other sick people, charity, etc.

9. In case there is an operator, you must request that your
request be attended to according to the Divine Law, to the
will of the person's BEING and according to their merits.

THEURGY FOR ILLNESSES OF THE MENTAL BODY
The sick person must say the mantram for one hour daily:
S M HON

You must summon the V.M. RAFAEL and V.M. HERMES
TRISMEGISTUS to ask them for healing.

         THEURGY TO ORDER THE MIND
The person can perform the following sentence:

“In the name of this sacred symbol (+),
by this sacred chalice (U),
and by this blessed host (^),
I command you earthly mind to withdraw
and I do not accept this thought.”

The three symbols are made with the thumb, index and
middle fingers together, on the forehead.
It is used for mental turbulence, when we cannot stop the
mind.

Another sentence:

“Earthly mind, I command you to withdraw. You are my
slave, and I am your Master and Lord, and you must obey
me until the consummation of the centuries. Amen"

The first thought you have when you get up, guides the
day and the last guides the dream experiences.

That is why the V.M. SAMAEL advises performing the
Conjurations of the 4 and 7 and the Invocation of Solomon
the Wise before going to sleep.

Also read something about the prophet Daniel from the
Bible.

              THEURGY WITH THE H.G.U.
At the time of the H.G.U. we ask the Most Sacred Holy
Spirit, to deign to cure the illness that needs to be cured
with those Christic atoms.

 THEURGY TO HEAL THE VITAL BODY, ORGANS
               AND SEXUAL ENERGY
The undines of the water are invoked in the sea with the
mantrams:

VEYA, VALLALA, VEYALA, HELAYA, VEYA

By singing these magic words, the undines of the waters
will come to your call. They are asked to heal and heal the
vital body, cleaning it, filling it with energy, vitality and

life, and to clean and heal the sexual organs, also purifying
the sexual energy to be able to receive help in chastity and
in alchemical transmutation.

      HEALING THEURGY WITH THE ATOMIC
         CONSCIOUSNESS’S OF THE BODY
Each atom of our body, which forms molecules and cells,
has its OWN INTELLIGENCE which are the ATOMIC
CONSCIOUSNESS of the body.

Each ATOM has CONSCIOUSNESS, each ATOM has
INTELLIGENCE.

The ATOMIC CONSCIOUSNESS of the body receives the
name of HACHIS.

In the same way, each organ of the body also has its own
intelligence and its own CONSCIOUSNESS, it is like a
living being.

Knowing these secrets, when an organ or part of the body
is sick, a curative theurgy can be performed, which
consists of talking to the sick organ or region of the body
to ask it to work and heal itself.

You can pray like this: “MY FATHER, MY GOD, MY
LORD, you who are my REAL BEING, my INNER GOD,
I ask and beg you to order the HACHIS, the ATOMIC
CONSCIOUSNESS’S of the (... name affected organ or
region), that they work intensely so that this affected
organ or region is cured, healed, restored, totally
according to the DIVINE LAW.


Work, work, work.

ATOMIC CONSCIOUSNESS’S of the (... name affected
organ or region), work, work, work, intensely to cure us,
heal us, totally according to the DIVINE LAW.




                 CHAPTER 10
                ASTROTEURGY
 ASTROTEURGY WITH THE MAGIC SQUARES OF
         THE PLANETARY LOGOS

Among the axioms of the HERMETIC SCIENCE,
bequeathed to Humanity by V.M. HERMES
TRISMEGISTUS, there is one who says: "AS ABOVE, SO
BELOW".

In other words, the laws of the MACROCOSM (Planets,
Solar Systems, Galaxies), have an analogy in the
MICROCOSM (Man).

So, in the same way that each ATOM of the physical body,
each organ and the BODY itself, of a person has an
INTELLIGENCE and a CONSCIOUSNESS, each PLANET
of a Solar System has a PLANETARY CONSCIOUSNESS,
a PLANETARY INTELLIGENCE.

That PLANETARY CONSCIOUSNESS that intelligently
governs the movement and life of a PLANET is called in
Esotericism the PLANETARY LOGOS.

A PLANETARY LOGOS is someone who has not only
achieved Mastery on the path of INITIATION, but has also
managed to obtain very high degrees in that Mastery,
called the degree of SABAOTH.

Every PLANETARY LOGOS is a SABAOTH, but every
SABAOTH does not have to be a PLANETARY LOGOS.

At the moment of the creation of a PLANET, the LOGOS
to which that mission has been assigned, deposits in a
place of SPACE, a fraction of its spiritual part, in what is
going to be the center of that PLANET.

That point becomes the HEART TEMPLE of that PLANET
in formation, and its CREATOR LOGOS will gravitate
there and express itself.

It would be very time-consuming to explain again at this
time the entire process of creating a PLANET, something
that we have already done in great detail in CHAPTER 2
of our previous book: ALCHEMY: THE SECOND BIRTH.

What interests us at this moment is that the PLANETARY
INTELLIGENCE of each PLANET expresses the
characteristics of each one of the 7 RAYS OF CREATION.

The planetary ray, corresponding to SCIENCE and
therefore to MEDICINE, corresponds to the PLANET
MERCURY.

The planetary regent of MERCURY is the LOGOS
RAFAEL.

Based on these explanations, there are some magical
formulas to work with these INTELLIGENCES and
therefore request health and healing assistance from
LOGOS RAFAEL, through certain procedures of
SIDEREAL MAGIC, which are known by the name of
MAGIC SQUARES.




               MANNER OF EXECUTION

1. The operator must make a numerical table, called a
planetary figure, writing it on wood, metal or paper.

2. The planetary figure is a mathematical combination of
certain specific numbers that has the power to attract the
PLANETARY INTELLIGENCE or LOGOS.

3. THE number that corresponds to the PLANET
MERCURY and therefore to the LOGOS RAFEL is the
following:

           8   58    59    5         4   62   63   1
          49   15    14   52     53      11   10   56
          41   23    22   44     45      19   18   48
          32   34    35   29     28      38   39   25
          40   26    27   37     36      30   31   33
          17   47    46   20     21      43   42   24
           9   55    54   12     13      51   50   16
          64    2    3    61     60      6    7    57

            MAGIC SQUARE OF MERCURY
                   Constant: 260

4. If possible, the operator will draw a circle on the ground
with a diameter of 1.5 meters and place the sign of the
pentagram with the upper vertex inside the circle and the
two lower points outside.


5. In the center of the circle the planetary number will be
placed, in this case that of MERCURY.

6. In case it is not possible to draw the circle, it can be
placed on a small table, a white tablecloth, 7 candles, a
pentagram and the corresponding magic square with
which we are going to operate.

7. Conjuration of the 4 elements.

8. Conjuration of the 7 Genies.

9. Exorcisms of EARTH, WATER, AIR, FIRE.

(As described in chapter 6 of this book).

10. The operator can sit down and proceeds to pray to his
REAL BEING as follows:

“My FATHER, my GOD, my LORD, you who are my
REAL BEING, my INNER GOD, I ask and beg you with
my soul and with my heart to transport me to the HEART
TEMPLE of the PLANET MERCURY.

At the entrance of the TEMPLE, make the salutation :
JACHIN, BOAZ. Take the seven sacred steps into the
TEMPLE and prostrate yourself at the feet of the DIVINE
LOGOS OF MERCURY and ask him:

V.M. RAFAEL, V.M. RAFAEL, V.M RAFAEL, before you
we have come to ask you, to implore you, to beg you, in
the name of the CHRIST, by the power of the CHRIST, by
the majesty of the CHRIST that you deign to grant us a


powerful help of HEALING (... here is explained the
illness or problem that needs to be cured).

V.M. RAFAEL, V.M. RAFAEL, V.M RAFAEL, we ask you
for CHOIRS, CHOIRS, CHOIRS, of ANGELS OF
MERCURY, so that they come to cure me, to heal me, (the
illness or problem that needs to be cured), according to the
DIVINE LAW and the WILL of the FATHER.

My FATHER, my GOD, I ask you and I beg you, deign to
give infinite thanks to V.M. RAFAEL, and his ANGELS of
the PLANET MERCURY, for the help received, which I
ask to crystallize in the physical world and in the inner
worlds according to the DIVINE LAW and the WILL of
the FATHER”.

This is how you work with sidereal magic and with the
magic squares of the PLANETS.

    ASTROTEURGY WITH THE ZODIAC GENIES
In the same way that each Planet has its INTELLIGENCE
and its REGENT, it so happens that the
CONSTELLATIONS of the ZODIAC have their regents
and their governors as well.

Each CONSTELLATION has 2 Regent Sidereal Geniuses.
Since there are 12 constellations of our ZODIAC, that
translates to 24 Zodiacal Geniuses.

Those 24 Masters, rulers of the 12 CONSTELLATIONS,
are known in esotericism as the 24 ELDERS who rule the
ZODIAC BELT.


Applying again the HERMETIC principle that says: "AS
ABOVE, SO BELOW", we find that each constellation of
the MACROCOSM has a regency in some part of the
physical body of the MICROCOSM MAN.

ARIES rules the head
TAURUS rules the neck and larynx
GEMINI rules the shoulders, arms, and lungs
CANCER rules the stomach
LEO rules the heart and spine
VIRGO rules the intestines and the lower abdomen
LIBRA rules the kidneys;
SCORPIO rules the sexual organs
SAGITTARIUS rules the hips and thighs
CAPRICORN rules the knees and the skin
AQUARIUS rules the calves and ankles
PISCES rules the feet.

The corresponding SIDERAL GENIUS are:

ARIES: SATAARAN – SARAHIEL
TAURUS: BAGHDAD – ARAZIEL
GEMINI: SAGRAS - SARAIEL
CANCER: RAMDAR-PHAKIEL
LEO: SAGHAM – SERATIEL
VIRGO: IADARA-SCHALTIEL
LIBRA: GRASGARBEN – HADAKIEL
SCORPIO: RICHOL-SAISSAIEL
CAPRICORN: SAGDALON – SEMAKIEL
SAGITTARIUS: AQUARIUM – SAKMAKREL
PISCES: RASAMOSA – UACABIEL



               MANNER OF EXECUTION

1. The constellation that governs the part of the body that
is sick or affected must be identified.

2. And before starting any spiritual medicine treatment,
permission and healing help should be requested from the
Sidereal Geniuses that correspond to that part of the body.

3. The person can pray like this: “My FATHER, my GOD,
my LORD, you who are my REAL BEING, my INNER
GOD, I ask you and I beg you with my soul and with my
heart to transport you to the MAIN TEMPLE of the
CONSTELLATION of .......

4. At the entrance of the TEMPLE salute: JACHIN, BOAZ.
Take the seven sacred steps into the TEMPLE and
prostrate yourself at the feet of the REGENT SIDEREAL
GENIUSES of the CONSTELLATION of... and ask them:

(NAME OF THE TWO GENIES), before you, we have
come to ask you, to beg you, to plead with you, in the
name of the CHRIST, by the power of the CHRIST, by the
majesty of the CHRIST that you deign to grant us
permission to be able to heal us, to be able to heal
ourselves from (name the organ or area of the body that
needs healing).

Venerable Masters (NAME OF THE TWO GENIES), I ask
you for a powerful HEALING aid (... the illness or
problem that needs to be cured is explained here).

“My FATHER, my GOD, I ask you and I beg you, you
deign to give infinite thanks to the SIDEREAL GENIES
(NAME OF THE TWO GENIES), for the help received,
that which I ask, will crystallize in the physical world and
in the inner worlds, according to the DIVINE LAW and
the WILL of the FATHER”.




                 CHAPTER 11
               AROMATHERAPY
In ancient times, patients were also treated with aromas to
favor their healing processes.

Perfumes influence the state of mind, the psyche, the
molecular part and therefore used wisely can help
promote healing.

They can be used in incense, in natural essences, or in any
way that does not contain mineral substances.

 FOR HEAVY ENVIRONMENTS AND TO CLEANSE
        PEOPLE OF NEGATIVE ENERGIES
Smudge of: Sage, rue, and wormwood.

               TO CLEANSE HOMES
Smudge of: Artemisia, Sage, Wormwood, Rue, Hand of
God.

      FOR PLACES WHERE MEDICINE WORKS
Three daily smudges of rue, sage and rosemary.

   AFTER BATHING WITH AROMATIC PLANTS
Frankincense and benzoin incense.

      INCENSES FOR WORKS OF HIGH MAGIC
For all kinds of theurgy practices, meditations and to
harmonize any place in a very powerful way, burn incense
of: nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, panela or black sugar,
allspice, benzoin, frankincense.

  FRANKINCENSE FOR WORKS OF HIGH MAGIC
The incense is divided into three equal parts, blue, yellow
and red vegetable aniline is added. The incense is dyed
with it and then the essence of magic is placed. All three
colors intertwine.

           FORMULA TO BLESS PERFUMES
Perfumes will be blessed with the following prayer:
"Praise to you, Lord our God, King of the world, who
created all species of aromas."

      ESSENTIAL OILS (ESSENCES – PERFUMES)
Each person should look for the perfumes and essential
oils that inspire them.

Perfumes permeate the person's body and aura, increasing
their vibration and causing a favorable change in their
mood.

For example, natural essences of:

CINNAMON
CITRONELLA
PINE TREE
ORANGE BLOSSOM
PURPLE
PINK
HELIOTROPE
NARD
LILAC
SANDALWOOD
ROSEMARY
BERGAMOT

ORANGE
AMBER
JASMINE
LAVENDER
SAGE
CEDAR
EUCALYPTUS
WHITE MUSK
BENZOIN

                   SCENTED CANDLES
In relation to scented candles says the V.M. SAMAEL:

The scented candles should never be missing in the Altar
of the Gnostic doctor, because the fire of the candles acts
on the subconscious of the patient in an effective way. In
Tibet, Mahayana the philosopher wrote a whole book on
the preparation of "scented candles".

After every curative operation, the Gnostic doctor must
extinguish a candle inside a glass of wine, in thanksgiving
to the Gods of Fire.

 PERFUMES AND HERBS OF EACH ZODIAC SIGN
Again the V.M. SAMAEL to respect:

“In every Temple of Medicine there must be twelve balls
of cloth with aromatic herbs hanging from the ceiling.
Each ball will contain the herbs corresponding to a
zodiac sign. The twelve balls will contain the herbs of
the 12 zodiacal signs.



When the patient inhales the healing perfume of a
zodiacal sign, he will feel that his improvement begins.”

         ZODIAC PLANTS AND PERFUMES

SIGN              PLANT               PERFUME
ARIES:            OAK                 MYRRH
TAURUS:           BIRCH               AROMATIC
                                      YERBA
GEMINI:           HONEYSUCKLE         MASTIC
CANCER:           EUCALYPTUS          CAMPHOR
                  CHERRY TREE
                  VIOLET
LEO:              SUNFLOWER           FRANKINCENSE
VIRGO:            ELM                 WHITE SANDAL-
                                      WOOD
LIBRA:            PINE, CYPRES        GALBANUM
SCORPIO:          OAK                 CORAL
SAGITTARIUS:      AGAVE               ALOE
CAPRICORN:        SYCAMORE            PINE
AQUARIUS:         PINE, CYPRES        SPIKENARD
PISCES:           AGAVE               THYME
                  SYCAMORE

Perfumes and essential oils can be prepared with these
plants or with the perfume corresponding to each sign to
help the sick.

An essence or perfume is also prepared that contains the
12 zodiacal perfumes, which is used in the works or
Healing Rituals.



                  CHAPTER 12
                 GEMOTHERAPY
GEMOTHERAPY is the science of working with the
elementals of the MINERAL KINGDOM.

In the same way that we explained in chapter 3 of this
book that what heals a plant is its ELEMENTAL and that
the plant itself is a physical vehicle for that healing, the
same thing happens with stones and minerals.

Each stone or mineral has an ESSENCE, a spiritual part,
which is found in that KINGDOM, carrying out its first
apprenticeships in the three-dimensional world.

The essences or elementals of the MINERAL WORLD are
known in esotericism by the name of GNOMES and
PYGMIES, and we can also carry out countless healing
works with them.

In other words, what works for each mineral is the life they
carry inside, as well as the vibrational characteristic they
have.

          WHITE QUARTZ FOR DIAGNOSIS
You should get a white or transparent quartz stone as they
are commonly called, as clean as possible, in the shape of
an obelisk and that fits in the palm of your hand.

Before starting to use it, it should be cleaned, to remove all
the impressions and energies of the people who touched it
previously.


It is submerged in a container with water, to which the
water is changed every day, for 3 days.

The person will carry it with them for a while to magnetize
it and at night they can leave it near the place where they
rest.

               MANNER OF EXECUTION

To use it in diagnosis, the procedure is as follows:

With the transparent white quartz in the palm of your
right hand, take the right hand of the person you want to
diagnose, leaving the quartz in the middle.

The elemental of quartz has an intelligence that makes it
enter the body of the sick person at that moment, and
"travels" to the feet of that person.

Once it reaches the feet, it begins to rise and goes to the
part of the body that is sickest or that has a problem.

At that moment, the operator who is going to diagnose,
well concentrated and trained in this exercise, can feel in
his own body the affected organ or place of the other
person, where the elemental “traveled” to.

It is a magic that happens due to a "reflex" effect and
thanks to the intelligence of the white quartz elemental.

           WHITE QUARTZ (OTHER USES)
The transparent quartz elemental is intimately related to
chastity and transmutation, therefore it helps the person
who carries it in these aspects.

As we explained in Chapter 1 of this book, it can also be
used as a revitalizer, since it is a channeler of solar energy
and therefore helps to attract and charge the vital body
with energy.

Next we are going to extract some teachings of GEM
THERAPY, delivered by the V.M. GALENO in his book
THE 7 MEDICINES OF AQUARIUS.

                   PINK QUARTZ
Resting on the solar plexus for an hour, it produces
harmony and emotional well-being.

The healing of a sick person normally starts from the
Emotional Center, from his plexus since it is the meeting
point of the spirit (upper part of the body), and matter
(lower part of the body), there then (at the height of the
navel) Pink quartz is deposited in the solar plexus.

Quartz vibrates with sunlight (photons), works as a
stabilizer of the forces of the planet, so much so that the
sanity of a mentally unbalanced person could be restored.

It can be placed under the pillow, asking the Elemental to
harmonize the couple or himself.

                        AMETHYST
Amethyst is a magical stone, since it acts at the level of the
Nervous System, causing a toning of it, and a wonderful
resistance, in addition to relaxing it, and bringing an extra
serenity to our lives.



It is used in contact with the body, through rings, earrings
or the stone itself. It is a powerful concentrator of cosmic
energy, and is considered the priestly stone par excellence,
related to spirituality and mysticism. Gives harmony.

                      HEMATITE
Rings made from this stone are worn for the purpose of
conjuring negative vibrations into that stone, so they get
trapped there, and do not contaminate our psyche.

From time to time these rings are changed, and many
times it happens that they break "accidentally", implying
that they have fulfilled their function.

                          GOLD
It is the most evolved mineral and attracts solar forces.

     AMETHYST, BLACK ONYX, GOLDEN RAIN
            TALISMAN FOR PROTECTION
Three small stones of AMETHYST, BLACK ONYX AND
GOLD RAIN are obtained, placed together in a bag and
charged, carried with them, as a method of protection
against vibrations and negative energies.

  WHITE QUARTZ AND AMETHYST TO ASK FOR
 THE GIFT OF MEDICINE, THE GIFT OF HEALING
A blue glass vessel, bottle or container is used, an
amethyst is placed inside and a transparent polished
quartz is placed on top of the amethyst, with the point
upwards.

The container is filled with water and then placed in the
sun. At the time of drinking the water, the ARCHANGEL

RAFAEL is asked to deposit in us the GIFT OF HEALING,
and the MOST SACRED HOLY SPIRIT is asked to grant
us the gift of Medicine to help our brothers and humanity
and that Give us the GRACE to work with life to heal life.

                    CRYSTAL BALL
The V.M. LAKHSMI gave us a practice with the crystal
ball, which he gave to the CHRIST himself to charge us
with Christic solar energy, to cure the heart and many
other ills.

For this practice, you should get a ball of quartz crystal or
rock crystal as pure as possible, without bubbles, a blue
glass container and blue cellophane.

                   WAY TO OPERATE

Before beginning the practices with the crystal ball, it must
be exorcized the first time with the exorcisms of earth,
water, air and fire.

The ball is placed in the SUN, inside the blue glass
container, without water, between 9 and 12 in the
morning, which is the time where in each place, the door
of the ABSOLUTE, of the AIN is open and therefore
reaches the crystal bio-electromagnetic radiation, related
to ultraviolet light, purple light.

At 12 noon the ball is removed from the SUN, wrapped in
blue cellophane, and placed inside the house on a small
table with a white tablecloth, where there must be a
lighted candle.


That LIGHT represents the CHRIST and is what maintains
the HARMONY of PRAYER for this practice.

At bedtime for night rest, the person takes the crystal with
the right hand, without the cellophane paper and places it
at the level of the heart, always holding it with the right
hand and asks the CHRIST to maintain the harmony that
is needed for the hours of sleep of the physical body, to
heal it, to fill it with energy and vitality.

He does this for 5 to 10 minutes, and then repeats the
procedure with his left hand.

The V.M. LAKHSMI said of this practice: "That it heals the
heart, heals the nervous system and it helps them to get up
the next day with joy, because the density of the night did
not affect them."

The crystal ball is for personal use, however in the case of
married couples, they can share the same ball for the
practices of both.




            CHAPTER 13
     MEDICINE AND THEURGY FOR
              WOMEN
We do not want to repeat everything that the Venerable
Masters and the Sisters have already written, in relation to
medicine, for the ladies, but it is obvious that a medical
book cannot miss a chapter dedicated to the eternal
feminine, and that is why that we are going to cite some
formulas and works of theurgy that may be useful.

                      CELLULITIS
Rattlesnake capsules. Vitamin E. Gentle massages in the
affected area with rosemary oil.

                           HAIR
Coconut oil and sage oil are used to fortify and beautify
the hair, which also has the power to cleanse the scalp.

           UTERUS AND SEXUAL ORGANS
In order to protect the womb of women and the sexual
organs in general, women should not cut their hair too
short.

It is known by all cultures of antiquity that women's hair
acts as a kind of protective cloak, protecting it against all
illnesses in the womb and sexual organs in general, such
as tumors, cysts, fibroids, etc.

     SEXUAL FRIGIDITY, LACK OF LUBRICATION
If a woman suffers from this problem, sometimes it can be
due to a lack of vitamins and minerals or a psychological
aspect due to mistreatment, constant fighting and lack of
affection.

Therefore, to examine the two aspects and to help yourself
with this problem, you can take supplements of vitamin E,
magnesium, selenium, pollen and royal jelly, in order to
correct any biological problem if it exists.

One of the best aphrodisiacs that exist, in all cases, both for
women and men is REST, because a tired physical body
obviously does not work in sexual aspects.

And finally, many times the problem is not physical but
psychological, due to fights, mistreatment, etc. In those
cases, the person must do everything they can on their part
so that at home and in the couple's relationship, there are
no continuous fights, there is harmony during the day and
both people treat each other with respect and more than
anything with love.

The behavior that the couple has with each other in daily
life is essential.

   RECOMMENDATIONS DURING THE PERIOD
The V.M. LAKHSMI recommends to the Ladies, that
during the days in which they find themselves with the
period, they take certain care.

“The woman during her menstruation, should avoid
bathing with cold water; disordered emotions, must
control certain nervous states that menstruation generally
produces and that makes the blood rise, causing
headaches, insomnia and depression. For this we suggest

chamomile tea, orange tree leaves and drops of valerian
tincture at a rate of forty drops for each shot. For the
woman, on the days of menstruation, she should try not to
eat meat and if she does eat it, do it with salad and with
rice or with flour.

The woman needs to care a lot about herself on the days
that she is having her menstrual period. She should avoid
reading or any job that wears her eyes, avoid salty meals
as this causes fluid retention. The woman must integrate
to the maximum with her body and with her way of
living”.

                  MENORRHAGIA
Vitamin C, Iron, Washes with decoction of pomegranate
bark.

     ABSENCE, DELAY OF PERIOD OR PAINFUL
                        PERIOD
For this problem the V.M. SAMAEL recommends, among
other plants, wormwood, mugwort, chamomile, rue,
fennel

                       MENOPAUSE
For this period, in addition to all the psychological aspects,
the consumption of pollen and royal jelly, ground grape
seeds, vitamin E, sunflower seeds and baths in hot springs
are helpful.

        FUNGI AND BACTERIAL INFECTIONS
For this problem the V.M. LUZ ALBA has recommended
hot baths with rue, sage and wormwood and invoking the


GOD of fire AGNI, asking him to cleanse the womb.
Consume the DRENADOR.

         CLEANING PRACTICE FOR WOMEN
“Verbena, rue and sage are used. They are crushed in a
mortar, water, sea salt, asafoetida, a little sulfur is added
and placed in a vessel, preferably for this practice. The
person to be cleaned stands in this water, which must be
up to their ankles.

Another water is prepared containing mugwort (or
venturosa), thyme and a few drops of cinnamon essence.

To the woman standing in the first preparation, another
woman throws the second compound from the crown, 4
liters approximately.

In those moments the Conjurations are recited to then ask
the Gods of the Elementals to cleanse the body of that
sister, mainly the chakras of the feet and the head, to
cleanse the whole body.

It is done three Fridays in a row, preferably in the morning
hours”.

                       PREGNANCY
For this topic, we are going to cite some recommendations
of the Venerable Masters that were compiled by the
Missionary Sister Ana María García from Uruguay in her
book, “Motherhood – Conception, Pregnancy, Childbirth
and Confinement”.



“The first thing a woman should do is put the pregnancy
in God's hands. In the hands of the Archangel Gabriel who
is the one who directs the armies of angels of life and
assists the laboring woman and the midwife in that
difficult time.

“So it's important that we make our homes sanctuaries.
Where are we going to put God first, where are we going
to put from the moment a woman became pregnant, put
that in the hands of the blessed Mother Nature, of the
Mother Kundalini, of the Archangel Gabriel, of the Divine
Law, so that that woman is assisted throughout the
gestation period and at the time of delivery. Rest assured
that you will be helped.”

V.M. LAKHSMI

 THE PSYCHOLOGY OF THE PREGNANT WOMAN
"The imagination of pregnant women is essential for the
development of the fetus. It has been shown that every
mother can, with her imagination, alter the psyche of the
fetus. It is urgent that pregnant women will contemplate
beautiful paintings, sublime landscapes and listen to
classical music and harmonious words, so it can operate
harmoniously on the psyche of the creature that it carries
in its entrails.

The woman in a state of pregnancy should not drink
alcohol, nor smoke, nor contemplate the ugly, the
unpleasant, because all this is detrimental to the
development of the creature.



You have to know how to excuse the whims and mistakes
of the pregnant woman. Many intolerant men, lacking true
understanding, get angry and insult women in a state of
pregnancy. The bitterness of this, the afflictions caused by
the uncharitable husband, affect the fetus in a state of
gestation, not only physically but psychically.

Taking into account the power of the creative imagination,
it is logical to affirm that the pregnant woman should not
contemplate the ugly, the unpleasant, the inharmonious,
the disgusting, etc.."

V.M. SAMAEL AUN WEOR

                DURING PREGNANCY
"When the wife is pregnant, the man physically separates
from her, which allows the woman a child of better moral
quality, who is not suckled by lasciviousness or low
emotional states."

"..., once the woman perceives that she is pregnant, she
separates herself from the man, that is, married life ends,
this can be easily done by the chaste man because he is full
of superhuman grace and power, by all means he makes
life pleasant for his wife so that she does not resort to
bother or similar things because all of this has
repercussions on the fetus that is gestating. If this causes
damage, then there will be no effect of carnality from the
people that have not never received any advice in this
sense, which is the explanation why many children have
terrible passions from an early age and blush their
mothers in a scandalous way.


The mother knows that she is giving life to a new being
which she keeps in her living temple, like a precious jewel,
giving her beautiful forms with her prayers and thoughts
that will exalt the new creature, then comes the event of
the birth without pain, in the form simple and natural, to
the glory of their parents."

V.M. GARGHA KUICHINES

"The mother dedicates herself to taking care of her
pregnancy, but she should not transmute, since her entire
genital system is busy with functions other than
transforming energy, since she uses it to strengthen and
vitalize the creature that is gestating."

“Avoid watching or reading movies, books, photos, that
cause horror, that are bloody, violent or terrifying, since
all the impressions received by the mother are perceived
or affected by the fetus.

Always try to look at beautiful things, pictures of pretty
children, landscapes, listen to soft music, avoid
disappointments and arguments.”

Taken from the book: Women's Revolution

              EXERCISE IN PREGNANCY
The V.M. Lakhsmi recommends that women do not
exercise until they are four months pregnant. From that
moment on, take walks outdoors. Get inspired by nature.

"Bicycling and horseback riding in women causes the
muscles of the vagina to harden and calluses form, which

then affect us in childbirth and even in transmutation
practices."

From material delivered by Luz Marina Bustos at a Ladies'
meeting at the Lumisial Xochipilli, Uruguay, (November
1996)

            FOOD DURING PREGNANCY
The V.M. Lakhsmi recommends eating very healthy
things that do not intoxicate her. If she is anemic she
should take tests. You have to combine the two sciences
walking side by side.

Avoid constipation, drink papaya juice with wheat bran,
eat fruits, vegetables.

Keep the kidneys clean by taking horsetail equisetum,
melon juice. Consume vitamins from the fourth month.

          GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS
First three months:
- Keep it a secret that you are pregnant as much as
possible.
- Medical care
- Lots of care
- Vitamin C (not much), milk and complex B
- Pollen
- Clothes not tight
- Bathe with cold or lukewarm water
- Eat what the body asks for
Four to nine months:
- Normal life

- Lower doses of vitamins
- Dayamineral capsules (two a day)
- Relaxation teas
- Correct constipation
- Exercises (walks). Especially after the sixth month (two
hours a day)
From eight months:
- Every other day, baths with fig leaves from the belly
down, warm and warm
- Do not bathe with cold water
- Cold in the womb: it hurts in childbirth
Both parents should talk to the baby a lot and tell him to
prepare for the birth.
(Given by Sister LUZ MARINA BUSTOS)

“The woman who is going to have a baby should take a
decoction of fig leaves. The woman should bathe a month
before with fig leaves and bathe her belly with them. Do
not forget that the fig is the fig tree and that has to do with
fertility. If you take a fig and open it and see there is pure
sperm inside. It is a fruit of fertility. That will help the
creature in the womb receive a series of hormones.”

V.M. LAKHSMI

  GODDESS TLASOLTEOTL FOR ASSISTANCE IN
                       DELIVERY
Before and during childbirth invoke the V.M.
TLAZOLTEOTL, Aztec Goddess of childbirth. She is
asked for help so that childbirth is natural, without pain,
without complications, asking for protection, so that the


baby can come into the world in the most harmonious way
possible, both for the Mother and for the baby.

We have seen, many times, true miracles with this
practice.

                    ABOUT CESAREAN
“The womb is a Temple of Major Mysteries. It is where the
Third Logos fertilizes nature. It is necessary for children to
be born in natural childbirth. The woman has glands in her
genitals that excrete certain substances, they excrete them
when they are going to be fertilized and when they are
going to give birth. During time of childbirth the Bartoli
glands and other glands are secreting substances which
the child has to be massaged. He comes out tight, receiving
vibrations from those glands that will serve him for his
mental, psychological and spiritual formation.”

“Currently, psychologically, women are already being
prepared for a cesarean section. In part a cesarean section
is a violation against nature. If a woman cannot give birth,
blessed be that doctor who can help her and save them
both. Science has advanced in accordance with the needs
of the times.”

“Gestating a child in the womb is a science. That should
not be in a mechanical way. The cesarean section should
only be done at the last moment, when there is no other
way out.”

V.M. LAKHSMI



              CHAPTER 14
         THEURGY FOR CHILDREN
                       PLACENTA
The V.M. SAMAEL recommends burying it in a warm
place, so that the mother does not later suffer problems in
the womb and other organs.

The V.M. LAKHSMI recommends putting it in a box with
plastic foam, and burning it with incense and myrrh,
without looking at it.

              THEURGY WITH THE NAVEL
When the navel falls, it is placed in a bag and a strong,
large tree is found. The child and the navel are taken and
the elemental is asked to protect it, to defend it. The child
is named three times. The navel inside the bag is buried at
the foot of the tree. This is a bond for life, until the child
disincarnates. The elemental continues to protect even if it
is cut, except if it changes Realms.

                    BABY FEEDING
It goes without saying that the best food that can exist for
a baby during his first year at least, is breast milk, which
would not be advisable at all to remove it.

Breast milk has a number of nutrients that allow the baby
to develop a healthy and strong body. Nature is wise.




             PROTECTION FOR THE BABY
It is advisable for the newborn to be with his mother, so
that the aura of the mother nourishes and protects the
child.

The child is nourished by the vital aura of the mother, for
the development of the organic biology of her body in
formation.

“The baby's first bath should be with seven roses. You can
boil the water or heat it in the sun.”

"Don't shave babies, it interferes with speaking."

THEURGY TO PRESENT THE CHILD TO THE GODS
                     OF NATURE
The V.M. LAKHSMI in his book THE AGE OF
AQUARIUS delivers a work of theurgy that in ancient
times was done to children when they were 210 days old
or 7 months.

We have met people who have taken into account this
magnificent work of magic for children.

The Master says: “When the creature is born, they will
leave it for a space of time, where the mother gives it love,
she gives her strength and harmony to the creature.

At 210 days the child will begin to receive an education
that consists of working with Nature, made by a Priest-
Magician, who will present him before the Gods of each
one of the elements so that they assist him in all the
development of his faculties and its growth.

In this way, the child would never lose the faculties or
attributes that it has brought from its mother's womb."

               MANNER OF EXECUTION

As this work involves family members, it is usually done
in front of several people. It can be done in the field.

You can pray the Lord’s Prayer, Chain of radiating Love,
Conjurations and then invoke the Devas and elementals.
The creature is presented with its full name and begged:
GENIES OF THE EARTH: that they keep their sense of
taste and the faculty of agriculture current, developing
their intuition.

GENIES OF THE WATER: that they keep in force the sense
of smell and the faculty of fishing, alchemy and the use of
superior emotion.

GENIES OF THE AIR: to keep your sense of hearing in
force; the power to teach and learn; imagination and
clairvoyance.

GENIES OF FIRE: to keep active the sense of sight, the
faculty of contemplation and the use of the superior mind.

GENIES OF THE ETHER: that they keep the sense of touch
and the faculty of adoration in force, keeping it in constant
contemplation.

SO BE IT. SO BE IT. SO BE IT

“Thus, those men and women will arise bringing within
themselves the faculties of the Spirit, given by the Genies

of Nature as a testimony of men, Kings of Nature. These
children would not lose their INTUITION: earth element;
the superior emotion: water element, superior mind: fire
element, imagination: air element, clairvoyance.

The presence of these faculties keep man in a constant
inner contemplation, ether element”.

              THEURGY WITH THE NAILS
The V.M. Samael indicates that the Black Lodge is making
a ship with the nails and hair of the disembodied (this is
repeated in Norse mythology). The objective is a
confrontation with the White Lodge in the waters and the
facts indicate that it is winning.

Mothers must cut the child's first nails three times in a row
in a crescent quarter and keep them until they are all
together. This is carried in front of an aloe and buried at
the foot asking that the child be freed from Black Magic,
that he not get involved and that they do not harm him. It
is requested and then buried. The child is named three
times. Mantram M.

It can also be done to the elderly. It is a special practice
against the Black Lodge.

                THEURGY WITH THE HAIR
It is ideal that the hair of the boy is cut only at 3 years
and the tips of the girls are trimmed at 7 years. It is better
to do this work with the first hair, but otherwise it can be
done.



He leaves before an agave plant and the elemental is asked
to protect him and free him from Black Magic,
psychological problems, mental wandering, evil, negative
influences of Black Magic on a mental and psychological
level. The person is named three times.

This work is used for all mental problems.

The elemental of the ungrafted seed lemon has the same
characteristics as the elemental of the agave. Both work at
a vital level.

               CLEANSING THEURGY
Children are not given sword cleanses until the age of
puberty (around 13-14 years) because their vital body is
not strong enough. Only with incense and plants.

         THEURGY AGAINST THE EVIL EYE
CAUSES

This is due to the hypnotic force in the gaze of some evil
people, who look at children.

SYMPTOMS

Children with evil eyes, have dark circles, fever in the
head, vomiting, diarrhea. Generally, allopathic medicine
is confused with these symptoms and diagnoses stomach
infections.

                      PROTECTION
To protect children from the evil eye, gold rings, legitimate
coral bracelets and jets can be placed on them.

MANNER OF EXECUTION

If the child has already contracted the evil eye, it can be
cured by reading a fragment of each of the four gospels to
them and crossing them on the forehead, mouth and chest.

It can also be cured by making magnetic cleaning passes
on the head and face that are burned in the fire to purify
it.

                      VACCINES
I have not seen any Master who recommends vaccines,
because they introduce bacteria into the body, without the
body suffering from that illness.

As a great writer says, you are shooting at an enemy that
does not yet exist.

On one occasion a Master of Medicine was asked what his
opinion was on vaccines, and he very wisely answered
that they should only be used when there is an epidemic.

If it cannot be avoided because it is mandatory, lemon is
applied to the vaccine immediately after placement.




                     CHAPTER 15
                      PRAYERS
                 PRAYER OF MECIDICE

From the gateway of the Temple of Life
where the officiant is the Spirit,
He who gives all and sustains all
as a unique attribute of every being…
where life begins its journey
carrying with it the happiness of being
in order to return to its point of departure...

There in that point I am placed
offering myself to my Divine Maker,
so that he grants me the privilege and grace
to be an Apostle of Life,
as his representation here, in the world of forms...

Humbly prostrated before the lectern
where stand the Holy Scriptures,
that give testimony of the commandments
of the Divine Lord,
where He asks His Apostles to teach His Gospel
and cure the sick,
I ask the Divinity to endow me with a heart
worthy of developing the most profound love
for every being and therefore, for life.




And at the same time to grant me this grace that can do all
In order to flourish in my larynx the word that cures,
in my hands the power to heal and in my heart the power
to be faithful to the Blessed One,
as a depositary of the stainless chalice,
full of love and purity.
Thus will my mind be from now on.
May I be capable of receiving into my hands every sick
being, and return it back to life safe and sound.

                        SO BE IT.

               V.M. LAKHSMI DAIMON




          PRAYER TO THE SOLAR LOGOS

You, Solar Logos, igneous emanation,
Christ in substance and consciousness
powerful life by which everything advances,
come unto me and penetrate me, enlighten me,
bathe me, trespass me and awaken in my Being
all those ineffable substances which are as much
part of You, as they are of me.

Universal and cosmic Force, mysterious energy,
I conjure you, come unto me, remedy my affliction,
cure me of this illness and remove from me this suffering
so I may have harmony, peace and health.

I implore you in your sacred name, which the mysteries
and the Gnostic Church have taught me,
so that you make all the Mysteries of this plane,
and the superior planes, vibrate with me and these forces
reunited, achieve the miracle of my healing.

                        SO BE IT




         PRAYER TO THE ANGEL ADONAI

Adonai, Angel of the LORD, of Love and Peace,
Servant of mine, owner of the key of Life,
I believe in you, to you I plead
for my health and for my life.

Fill my heart so that I find Peace.
Mediate for me before the ALMIGHTY
So that my body is full of Love and Peace
and all illness disappears forever.

Carry me upon the paths of Light.
Erase from my heart and mind
all moments of depression and insecurity.
Fill me with Faith.

Carry my soul to the spheres of Light
filling it with abundance, with love and strength.
Always accompany me with your Light and Love,
allowing me to be at every moment, before your presence.

Shed your blessings over me,
over my home, over all who are around me,
granting us all the Privilege and Grace
to be united by the Harmony of the Father,
by the Force and Life of the Spirit,
by the Love of Christ.

                         AMEN

                    V.M. LAKHSMI

            PRAYER TO BLESS THE FOOD

                       “God almighty
                Maker, owner and master
                       of all creatures,
             place your hand on these foods
           converting them into a fount of life
            multipliers of your Divine Grace
                and Energy in my body.
                       I am your son,
                your servant and worker
                  fill my Soul and Body
               with your Grace and Love.
                           Amen.”

We bless the plate: “In the name of the Father, in the name
of the Son, in the name of the Holy Spirit, and in the name
of the Most Sacred Tetragrammaton”.




                 PRAYER IN PENANCE
This way of praying is used to ask for protection, healing
or help for any serious problem. Do not expect to have the
"water up to the neck".

It is done in two positions.

1st The person prostrates himself with his forehead on the
ground, extends his arms backwards and upwards, and
with the thumb and index fingers of each hand, forms
circles. There your BEING is invoked, or some MASTER
or the HIERARCHY with which you need to work with.

2nd The kneeling person, sitting on their heels, leans back
as far as possible, opening the arms in a cross at the sides
of the body, with the palms of the hands facing upwards
and in that position makes his request and his prayer to
the HIERARCHY that he invoked

This is called PRAYER IN PENINTENCE because of the
difficult position of the body.




                 PSALM 23
     PROTECTION AGAINST THE TENEBROUS
1. Jehovah is my shepherd; I will lack nothing.
2. In places of delicate pastures it will make me rest.
Besides, still waters will guide me.
3. It will comfort my soul. He will guide me in the paths of
righteousness for his name's sake.
4. Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of
death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod
and your staff will give me breath.
5. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my
enemies. You anoint my head with oil; my cup is
overflowing.
6. Surely good and mercy will follow me all the days of my
life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord for long days.




                    PSALM 91
             PROTECTION AND HEALTH
1. He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will dwell
under the shadow of the Almighty.
2. I will say of the Lord Jehovah: My refuge and my
fortress; my God, in whom I will trust.
3. Because he will free you from the trap of the hunter,
from the destructive plague.
4. With his feathers he will cover you, and under his wings
you will find refuge; Shield and buckler is his truth.
5. You will not fear night terror, nor the arrow that flies by
day,
6. Neither the pestilence that walks in the darkness, nor
the plague that destroys in broad daylight.
7. A thousand will fall at your side, and ten thousand at
your right hand; but it will not come to you.
8. Surely with your eyes you will look and see the reward
of the wicked.
9. Because you have made the LORD, who is my refuge,
the Most High, as your dwelling place,
10. No evil will come to you, nor plague will touch your
dwelling.
11. For he will send his angels for you, to guard you in all
your ways.
12. In their hands they will carry you, so that your foot
does not stumble on a stone.



13. On the lion and the viper you will tread; you will
trample the lion cub and the serpent.
14. Because he has set his love on me, I also will deliver
him; I will set him on high, because he has known my
name.
15. He will call on me and I will answer him; I will be with
him in trouble; I will deliver him and honor him.
16. I will satisfy him with a long life, and show him my
salvation.


(If it can be placed in any room of the house other than the
bedroom, PSALM 91, with a glass of water and a
permanently lit candle, serves to protect the house, the
people who live there and radiates great energy of
harmony).




                CHAPTER 16
             HEALING PRACTICES
               HEALING PRACTICE
            TALITA KUMI MANTRAM
          HOLY WEEK 2001 -V.M. LAKHSMI


We need a glass of water. We light 1 candle.

“Each person is going to locate himself in the place he is,
in the chair, on the road, etc. We have to be aware of
ourselves, to feel ourselves. Do not concentrate only on the
heart, but on the whole body. We take a deep breath. We
feel the inner organs. We feel the feet, the hands, the knees,
everything...

We take a deep breath. We see how within us there are
affected organs. We breathe through the nose.

We ask our Beloved Father, our Blessed Mother Devi
Kundalini, our Lord the Christ, the Most Sacred Holy
Spirit, God of Gods and Giver of life, to assist us, to help
us...

Concentrate now on the organ that is in a bad situation.
Do not concentrate on the illness, but on the organ that is
in the bad situation, and we say:

"You are part of my body,
You are part of my life,
I'm here to help, I'm here to help,


You and I, the two of us, we are going to eradicate this
evil."

Talk with it.

We are going to pronounce the mantra HAM-SAH 7 times.

HAM starts from the coccyx, from the spine, continues to
the head, from the head we launch it to the affected organ
(SAH), not to the illness. So that he has strength and
energy to free itself from evil.

Concentrate where the organ is and there you say
(mentally):

My Father, my Lord, my God, my Mother Devi Kundalini,
adorable and blessed beings, I am here in front of this
organ of my body that is sick.

By your grace, by your love and by your power, I ask for
the grace to be healed.

Igneous Christ, Ardent Christ, Sun Christ, Most Sacred
Holy Spirit, God of Gods and Giver of Life, help me.

My Holy and Blessed Guru, help me.

Lord Jehovah God of the Celestial Armies, help me.

Venerable Masters of the Blessed White Lodge, help me.

Venerable Masters of Medicine, help me.

Lord Anubis and 42 Judges of the Law, help me.


Blessed Gods of Nature, earth, water, air, fire and its
elements and the ether, help me.

I ask for the healing of this organ that is sick in my body, I
ask that this illness disappear.

I have faith, I believe in Almighty God and in his mercy,
which will give me health, will heal me, because I want it
that way, because I ask it that way and because my
Redeemer has the merits and can do it.

TALITA CUMI, TALITA CUMI, TALITA CUMI

May this dead man be resurrected, so that he may be free
from this evil.

For the Love of the Father, for the Force of the Spirit and
for the Mercy of the Son, may it be, may it be, may it be”.

AMEN.

At the end, drink a glass of water.




    HEALING PRACTICE GOLDEN LANGUAGE
       HOLY WEEK 2005 – V.M. LAKHSMI

Write on a piece of paper, an illness that one has, with
capital letters, have a red candle, the color of the Most
Sacred Holy Spirit.

 “May the presence of our Divine Being, and the Divine
Being of all of us, be here, since the Divinities are the ones
in charge of opening the spaces, dispelling the inner and
external darkness of all so that we can be in communion
With God.

The work consists of the following:

You are going to look at the piece of paper that you have
in your hand, and look at the light of the candle
(alternating). It is possible that some people manage to not
see it, while others will. Without distractions, we must be
here and now.

 We feel the beating of the heart, which is where life is
deposited and where love is deposited. It seems
incredible, the causes that originate the effects, so
intimately related to people's hearts.

Pay attention to the light. The Light is the Christ, the effect
of the Fire that the Light has is the Holy Spirit. So, if we do
this work with all of our devotion, we will see true events
crystallize here at this time.

You say from memory:

I believe in the Son, the Cosmic Christ,
the powerful astral mediation,
that links our physical personality,
with the Supreme immanence of the Solar Father.

Blessed Christ, Blessed Christ, I know that You know the
pain that overwhelms the World, therefore at this moment
we ask for your help.

Most Sacred Holy Spirit we know that nothing is hidden
from you, we know that you know all our weaknesses,
you know them. We also know that You know that we are
willing to fight to death for the claim of our body and our
soul.

My Lord, my Lord, we ask, we beg, we implore, for the
Blessed Love of the Father, for the Light of my Lord the
Christ, for the Force of the Most Holy Spirit, and for the
Kindness and Mercy of our Divine Mother , we ask for the
disintegration of this illness that afflicts my body.

Oh adorable Mother, You who live in me, and who know
my pain, help me, blessed Mother we ask you, adorable
Mother we beg you.

VI TALITA KUMI, VI TALITA KUMI, VI TALITA
KUMI, OKIUNI CHI YU PALI TIKA YA VI TALITA
KUMI VITA VITA VAYA VA VA AYAI VABA ITEPU
PIPI    TEOPOYA      PUEYA    TEPOLI     TEPLI
ETALITAKUMII ETEMPO YA ATEPA ELDETONIE YA
ETLE VIAT VITA VITA VITA TEPELEVITA YU
ITAPELI TU YO PILIPLIO YA VITE LE TALITA KUMI
PILI VITA YA ETIPOL YOKO KUYAO AL DEMONIE
ESPULO DOLOL HUIYA MEYA HUEENYIO E TITUL
AMIGOU ASITDULA EL TIPON NIMUL IAPUT TIEN
E LUGU ALIBUL ELKENATAPALA ETADABOL
TIPON LA TALITA KUMI GALI VA VA VA TALITA
KUMI GALI VA VA VA TALITA KUMI GALI VA VA
VA CUITI PILIKU TULITITO TULITITO ILDU YO
VELDRA MUCHIO MAS ELEPAL YO YEALTO ALI
POLETELAL ELPETIPOL LOTIL LITO PELI MAVITI
NOTE POL LE POL VETE PILE NUOL VETE
PILEMUAL PITE PULIPAL GALI GALI GALI VA VA
GALI GALI GALI VA VA GALI O PULIPAL PUYA ALA
KALI KALI KALI VIENTOF IALITELEMOF ELA
MOLE POLE LE MOLE MOL LA BELE FELA BELA
MALAPAR VELATOL TUBER KAPEL LA GALI GALI
GALI VOLEVOL OTIPUL HUANTO KAICHIO
GOTAL GONTAO POYA POYA POYA TIVA CUATLO
MAYOU VITIPA LUMIJA LLOUVAYA MALATEVA
TIVI TITI MA VOI JEPAL LATIPICHOI ETA TIBET
PIDEYI LLOMEMINE PILE BUM KELPILE YO PELES
LEMAL PILE LUNU BUM E VU DEN ELPILE ELMANO
KIU PILETOPIYOLEPE PALEPELE YO VU ETETOLE
VIE TOLE TALE VIE PILO GALI VA VA ETE KELE
TALE YIME ALLA TOLO POL AMOL PILI PILI PAL
PILI TOL POLO YIPALA YO TIBET TIBET ABOGI
BOGI TI DIVELTI OLMUYIO VAL TORRE TO KELEL
LOMUYIO KIELE KELE TOLO TODO NI EMI YUN.

Lord, Lord, Lord, hear our prayers.

Lord, we ask you for the healing of my body, I ask that this
illness that I have noted down will disappear from me, so
that my body is fit to carry out the Work of my Lord.

Lord, listen to me, listen to my prayers, Lord, I ask you, I
beg you by the mercy of my adorable Mother, by the love


of my beloved Father, by the strength of my Spirit and by
the light of my Lord, I ask the divine law that grants the
grace to cure and heal my body, that this illness disappears
from me, I am willing to fight, to work for the good of my
sister humanity, for the good of my Gnostic brothers, for
the good of the Work of my blessed Father and beloved,
for the good of my Work.

Lord, listen to my prayers, I beg you Lord, I ask you for
the merits of my blessed beloved Father, for the grace of
the Spirit, for the goodness of my Mother and for the light
of my Lord, I ask the divine law to give me grant the grace
to be cured, to be healed.

Blessed Christ, blessed Christ, blessed Christ baptize us
with fire, we ask you so that our soul may be emancipated,
that our body be healed and healed, and so that our
conscience may take the course it needs to take in the
emancipation of pain.

Blessed Christ, moments of glory, glory to God in the
highest and peace on earth, to this people of good will.

Lord, blessed Lord, in your hands we place this request,
we ask that our body be healed, that this illness disappear
forever. We are committed to making great efforts and
sacrifices for our sister humanity, for our Gnostic brothers,
for the Work of our beloved Father, for our Work, forever
and ever. Amen. Amen. Amen.

May the deepest peace reign in our hearts, dear brothers
and have a very happy night.


         PRACTICE WITH THE V.M. LAKHSMI
Put a glass of water and a rose of any color on a small table,
light three candles in a triangle. The glass will be located
in the center. A crucifix and a pentalpha. Then perform the
following Invocation:

HARE RAM, HARE RAM, RAM HARE HARE, HARE
CRISTO, CRISTO CRISTO, HARE HARE, HARE
MURARE. MUDUP COIPTUS, HARE COPAL, GOVING
MUKUN, SONRE MAGE, PRACA YODI, KOLPI BASI,
PARVOT TULLO, HIRO NODANE DENEM. SIRI
GOVING, SIRI GOVING, GANESHA NAMAP.
NODANE DENEM. SIRI GOVING, SIRI GOVING,
GANESHA NAMAP.

IN THE NAME OF CHRIST, BY THE GLORY OF CHRIST,
BY THE POWER OF CHRIST

HARE CRISTO, HARE CRISTO

LAKHSMI, LAKHSMI, LAKHSMI.

This invocation will be made at eleven o'clock at night or
at eleven o'clock in the day, asking V.M. LAKHSMI the
desired favor. This will be done for eleven days in a row.
At the end we will give thanks to the Cosmic Christ and
wait patiently and resignedly for the verdict.

When the law is on our side, the results are immediate.
When it is not, it is necessary to repeat this eleven days
three times and dedicate oneself to the service of
humanity.


      PRACTICE FOR MOMENTS OF ANGUISH
                V.M. LAKHMSI

This practice can be done in moments of anguish, despair,
depression.

“We prostrate ourselves before GOD, to ask him with all
our heart, to fill us with his LOVE and his GRACE, those
empty spaces that we have in our hearts, because due to
that, we feel emptiness, loneliness, sorrow and pain.

And there, prostate or lying in a dorsal supine position,
filled with a great intention of regeneration, with
willpower and repentance, we pronounce the mantra OM,
20 times.

Then we say: “My soul, I ask you, I beg you, to fill me with
STRENGTH, LOVE and PEACE, and prostrate before my
DIVINE MOTHER DEVI KUNDALINI, pray for me, so
that JOY reigns in my heart, ABUNDANCE reigns and
HAPPINESS.

By the FORCE and by the GRACE of the MOST SACRED
HOLY SPIRIT, by the LIGHT and the LOVE of my LORD
the CHRIST, and by the MERCY of the DIVINITIES:

HELP ME, HELP ME, HELP ME”.

Then we pray 3 PATER NOSTER, full of FAITH, HOPE
and LOVE.

Unquestionably, this practice will lead us to be more
fervent, enterprising and self-confident people, capable of
being victorious in all the aspects of life.
  HEALING PRACTICE WITH THE PATER NOSTER
The theurgist recites the PATER NOSTER to the patient,
and makes a cross over the affected organ or area of the
body, using the thumb, index and middle fingers of the
right hand, at the time he makes each of the requests,
imagining that the affected organ or part is healed.

1. Our Father who are in Heaven. (+)
2. Hallowed be your Name. (+)
3. Your Kingdom come to us. (+)
4. Your Will be done on Earth as it is in Heaven. (+)
5. Give us today our daily bread. (+)
6. Forgive our debts, as we forgive our debtors, (+)
7. Let us not fall into temptation and deliver us from evil.
(+)
Amen. Amen. Amen.




PRACTICE WITH THE BODY SYSTEMS AND THEIR
                 COLORS
               V.M. GALENO

“Taking a comfortable position that does not bother us for
half an hour, we concentrate on our breathing. Every time
we inhale we try to visualize the prana that enters our
body flooding it with energy and every time we exhale we
let out all our negative emotions and body tensions.

We are locating ourselves in a third state of consciousness;
we are here and now. The music helps to keep the
consciousness alive in the superior worlds. We continue to
control our physical body, especially the shoulders, the
back, the neck, the head. Slowly, slowly we are
approaching today's practice and we begin…

We ask the Masters for help. To help us in this sacred place
to perceive in the deepest the essence of this practice. Each
one of us has to visualize his or her skeletal system, the
skeleton with all the bones of the body, the entire column,
even the smallest bones that we have in our bodies and in
our hearts. We are going to give thanks to all those bones
that together allow our movement. We give thanks to that
system that allows us to live and we see it in a yellow
color, all yellow.

We continue and we are going to see our muscular system
with all the muscles that our body has and all the tendons
that our body has as there are many, in many shapes,
different sizes. We have to thank all the muscles. We give
thanks to these systems that allow us to live, to move,
imagining a yellow color.

We are now imagining our circulatory system from the
heart, arteries, veins and the entire system where the
blood reaches our body. That system that carries life,
oxygen, and takes out the toxins. We give thanks to that
system that allows us to live, which works incessantly,
which allows us to live from birth to the last moment of
our life. We give thanks and imagine it as red.

We enter another system. Now it is time for the digestive
system, the mouth, to the stomach, intestine, until the end,
and we give thanks to that system, its secretions, its
movements that allow us to get everything necessary for
life from food. We thank that system that has a red color
for its work.

We now go to the lymphatic system that extends
throughout our body to cleanse, to maintain health, we see
its ducts, and we visualize it as white and we thank that
system for its incessant work that allows us to live.

We now visualize the reproductive system, each one now
visualizing its creative organs and giving thanks for its
work and imagining it as white.

We pass to the respiratory system, the nose and the lungs
that allow us to exchange with the air that surrounds us
and we give thanks to those organs of our body that allow
us to live, that allow us to extract oxygen, substances for
life and other things from the air that surrounds us and we
imagine that blue system.

Now we are going to put our attention on the nervous
system starting with the brain, cerebellum, spinal cord and

going down and visualizing all the nerves that come out
of our spine and reach any point in our body creating an
extraordinary communication network and we thank this
system that allows the connection of information between
each organ and we visualize it in a bright black color.

And as we approach the subtlest part of our body, we give
thanks to that nervous system for the work that allows us
to live every day and we begin to visualize our body as a
set of cells throbbing with life, millions and millions of
cells that work together in harmony, with the sole purpose
of allowing life, to allow life to manifest and we imagine
our body as green. This is the color of the cell and at the
same time we give thanks to all the cells of our body for
the work that they do every day. And we go down even to
the smallest and try to visualize our body as millions and
millions and millions of molecules, a superlative union of
atoms, molecules, that allow us to live and we thank each
molecule for its work, for its service, and we visualize
everything our body throbbing with orange molecules.

At this point already the sensation of our body is different.
Totally different from the one at the beginning of the
practice. We give thanks to all the molecules, their
intelligence, their services, and we stay still for a few
minutes in this state of consciousness.

And now that we are finishing the practice, we are going
to thank our Father for allowing us to be here and sharing
together the teachings of the Masters, the doctrine of the
Christ, the doctrine of the Avatar of Aquarius, the divine
Gnosis. We thank our Father for allowing us to work on
us to fulfill Parlok duty, to work on the 3 factors. Let us

give thanks for the impulse it gives us to turn into rebels
towards the light. Brothers, thank you very much."

PAZ INVERENCIAL.




           PRACTICE FOR SELF-HEALING
              V.M. BEINSA DOUNO

“Lord, you are the source of Life!

Send in me Your Life-giving Force:
the Spirit to heal my mind, my heart,
my Spirit, my Soul, my will and body.

So that I can be cured of all illnesses and sufferings, both
physical and mental.

To give me the gift of health, strength and life, youth and
beauty in order to develop in me talents and qualities to
be able to live, work and serve you”. Amen.




            CHAPTER 17
    PHYSICAL-ESOTERIC EXERCISES
The Venerable Masters of the White Lodge, through the
V.M. SAMAEL and the V.M. LAKHSMI DAIMON, have
delivered at this time a large number of series of physical-
esoteric exercises to keep us fit and healthy.

In this book we are going to focus on two of them, which
we have practiced with a very efficient result and
therefore we testify by our direct experience.

                    PRANIC EXERCISE
This exercise, the VM LAKHSMI told us, was delivered as
the most important technique of a race on the MOON, so
that they could conquer the element of air.

If possible, choose a place in the open air to perform the
exercise, in order to directly receive the vital energy of the
air, and if possible, also barefoot, with the soles of the feet
touching the ground, to receive its vital energy.

It is an exercise that fills the person with oxygen, prana,
(vital energy from the air), vitality, allowing that person to
live that day with joy, enthusiasm and with the firm
decision to carry out their spiritual work.

PRACTICE

1. The person stands with their feet about 25 centimeters
apart and their arms at their sides.



2. Raise your arms, upwards in two movements,
energetically, thus making two inhalations through the
nose, to take in the prana.

3. On the first movement, with the first breath, raise your
arms to shoulder height and can imagine the golden
yellow energy of the earth penetrating the soles of your
feet and covering you up to your knees.




4. On the second movement, on the second breath, raise
your arms to join your palms above your head and you
can imagine the energy of the air, sky blue in color, coming
through your nose and covering you from the inside out,
from the heart until the head.




5. Then lower your arms, also in two movements,
energetically, exhaling the air through your mouth in two
counts.




6. This series of two inhalation movements, with the arms
up, and two exhalation movements, with the arms down,
is repeated 30 times.

7. Then the person sits in a comfortable position, and
concentrating on the prostate if he is a man or on the
uterus if he is a woman, he asks the Most Sacred Holy
Spirit, so that the energies and vibrations that have come
down from above, merge with those that have risen from
the earth, so that it cures him, heals him, purifies his
creative energy, cleanses and heals his sexual organs and
prepares his body for practical magic.

8. Concentrate on the area between the knees and the
heart, visualizing the color red, vocalizing the mantram M
30 times.

9. Thanks are given to the Most Sacred Holy Spirit for the
help received.

The V.M. LAKHSMI, in his book "IN AQUARIUS A NEW
EXODUS", comments in relation to this exercise:

“This prana that descends from above, if there is good
concentration and harmony, enters through the nose
converted into a sky-blue light, flooding our entire body
and harmonizing it. The prana or energy that rises from
the earth, enters through the sole of the foot converted into
a golden yellow color. She goes up to the knees also giving
us harmony, tranquility, and security.

It should be clarified that in this exercise the Three
Primary Forces come together to create the Blue of the

Father, the yellow of the Son and the Red of the Holy
Spirit. This creation is concentrated in our vital organs:
prostate and gonads in men and ovaries and uterus in
women.”




 TIBETAN EXERCISES TO REJUVENATE AND HEAL
          YOURSELF FROM EVERY ILLNESS
We have verified that the practice of these exercises brings
multiple benefits for the body, for the psyche and for the
soul and we want to transcribe directly from the book
RADICAL TRANSFORMATION, written by Efraín
Villegas Quintero, the V.M. DESOTO, based on the
teachings and explanations he received directly from V.M.
SAMAEL.

“It is necessary to know that in the human body, in the
cellular organism, there are some Chakras that we could
call special for organic vitality. They are a kind of vortex
through which Prana, life, enters our body.

The FIRST is in the Occipital. The SECOND in the frontal.
The THIRD is the laryngeal located in the throat. The
FOURTH is the liver. The FIFTH is the prostate and there
are also two in the knees, which amounts to seven in total.

These seven Chakras are basic, for the vitality of the
physical organism, through which Prana enters in the vital
body. This is the seat of all organic activity.

The laryngeal, for example, is consistent, related to the
prostate, which is why the voice, the word, must be taken
care of.

Shrill or too low voice sounds should be carefully avoided.
If we observe the life of many decrepit old people, we can
perfectly verify that they emit many sounds. Specifically
shrill sounds, and this falsifies their sexual potency or
indicates impotence at the same time.

The same thing happens with those sounds that are too
heavy and cavernous. They also falsify sexual potency.
The male's voice, therefore, must be kept within normal
limits and the female's should not be too low or shrill
because this distorts the sexual potency, due to the
intimate relationship between the larynx itself and the
sexual center.

It could be argued that women do not have a prostate but
they do have a Chakra that is related to the uterus, which
plays a very important role in them, as important as the
prostate Chakra in men. We could call this Chakra in
women the Uterine Chakra, and we already know the
importance of the uterus in women.

Having made this short preamble, we are going to narrate,
for the good of our Gnostic brothers, something that is
extremely important as information.

It turns out that a retired English colonel lived in India
some time ago. He was a man in his seventies and he had
a young friend.

That colonel heard about a LAMASERY monastery that
existed in Tibet, where people became young. Here many
arrived old and left young. I'll tell you this in a precise
way, for now I would like to explain the reason for these
six rites that make it possible to return to youth in the same
way that the English colonel was looking for.

The first thing we must do is to seek health because a
healthy body is good for everything, it can endure


anything and responds to the demands of material and
spiritual work.

The first thing, as I already mentioned, is to heal the body
and keep it invigorated throughout life. The other is to
keep it in good condition, because what does one do with
a sick body?

It is obvious that an esotericist, an initiate, should never be
sick. Illnesses and stormy issues are for people who are not
on the real path. He who is on the path must not be
decrepit or sick, that is clear.

So to assist with this, there are a series of very important
esoteric exercises. Much has been said in esotericism
regarding for example, Kundalini Yoga, about Viparita-
Karani-Mudra and the whirlwind dervishes.

In Pakistan and in India, there are dervishes who know
how to perform certain wonderful dances and through
them they awaken certain powers and develop certain
Chakras.

It is urgent to know all this if one wants to have a young
body or wants to develop the Chakras. So let's see this
series of exercises.

The young do not appreciate what youth is worth because
they are young, but the old do appreciate that wealth is
youth. However, with these six rites that we are going to
practice, an old man can rejuvenate himself.

It is clear that with these rites a young person can stay that
way, and if he is old he can return to youth.
With these practices anyone can heal from their own
ailments. Here we will see the MAYURASANA, the
kneeling position, the TABLE position, which is seen in
some sacred ruins, etc., etc., etc.

It is a synthesis of esoteric exercises, with documentation
in India, Persia, Pakistan, Turkestan, Yucatan, Mexico, etc.
I have seen some publications from these areas, but they
do not teach the widely balanced formula that is needed.
Therefore, what I am going to teach you is very important
and you can well teach it there in South America to all the
brothers of the Gnostic Movement.

First, so that the old become young, seventy-year-old men
can be, for example, turned into thirty-five or forty-year-
olds.

Surely it will be asked of me why I did not reveal this at a
young age. This is simply because I was not interested in
keeping my physical body young, However, now that I am
informed that I have to keep this body indefinitely in order
to start the Age of Aquarius, it is obvious that I have to
practice such exercises.

I once saw a publication that was sent to me from Costa
Rica, which contained such rites, because these rites are
not the exclusive patrimony of anyone.

So, there are some lamasery monasteries in the Himalayas
and in other places where these rites are practiced,
especially in a lamasery monastery called "The Spring of
Youth". Of course, despite practicing many exercises


there, I did not find all the documentation of them in the
mentioned publication.

I also found some data collected from the same lamasery,
which I know very well, as I also know other schools in
Hindustan. All one needs to do is take a bit of effort to
travel through Turkestan, Persia, Pakistan, etc., and
something will be known there about the whirling
dervishes or whirlwinds, etc.

You have to meditate a little about what it means to be on
your knees. As a child, you unconsciously practice certain
exercises.

In any case, I saw in that publication a quite interesting
story and now I am going to tell you the case of the English
Colonel, so that you form a very exact and complete idea
about the benefits that are received with these exercises
that I am going to teach you.

In this magazine of the past, they talked about the case of
the English colonel, who at the age of 70, back in India,
knew that there in Tibet there was a lamasery where
people could rejuvenate themselves.

He invited a friend of his, but his friend was young. Of
course, he didn't want to pay attention to him because
already being young he did not see a reason to want to
rejuvenate himself.

On the day of the poor old man's departure, his young
friend laughed quite a bit to see the poor 70-year-old old



man with his cane, bald head, a few white hairs, very old,
traveling towards the Himalayas in search for youth.

The young friend thought to himself: How curious this
poor old man has already lived his life and wants to live
again. Of course he saw him go and the only thing that
brought up was laughter.

The curious thing about the case is that after about four
months, the colonel's young friend received a letter from
the old man, informing him that he was already on the
trail of that lamasery, called THE SPRING OF YOUTH.
The young man continued to laugh at this notion.

And then 4 years later something occurred that stopped
the young man from laughing. Someone knocked on the
door of the young man's house and he went to open the
door.

-Hello, who is it?

The newcomer, who appeared to be a man in his 35s or
40s, said:

-I'm Colonel so-and-so.

"Ah!..." said the young man, "are you the son of the colonel
who went over there to the Himalayas?"

"No," he replied, "I am the very colonel."

-But, how is it possible if I know the colonel and you two
look nothing alike. He is an old man and you look young.


'I repeat, I am the colonel who wrote you a letter four
months after my departure, informing you that I had
already found the trail to the lamasery. He showed the
young man his documentation and he, of course, was
amazed.

The curious thing is that this colonel, there in the
Himalayas and lamersary called the "The Fountain of
Youth", saw many young people with whom he became
friends.

When he arrived he was the only old man. The others
appeared to be around the ages of 30, 35 or 40 years old
Later, however, when he became good friends with many
of them, he discovered that all of them were over 100 years
old and they were all older than him. None, however,
appeared so.

The colonel was amazed. He submitted himself to the
esoteric discipline of the lamasery and managed to attain
his youth.

I saw this story in that publication that was sent to me, but
I personally know that lamasery as I have been there. It is
a fairly large building with huge patios; The men work in
one patio and the women initiates work in the other. There
are not only Tibetan women initiates, but also English,
French, German and from different European countries in
that LAMASERY.

I know all the exercises that have been taught there since
ancient times. I have known the whirlwind movements
from the Mohammedans who constitute part of the

esoteric aspects of Mohammedanism and which are
practiced by the dancing dervishes.

As for the kneeling position, it is that of esoteric mysticism.
Other special technical movements such as the table
position in Yucatan and the position that some call
“lizard”, which is an exercise that serves to reduce the
abdomen. This is documented in Hindustan, in Kundalini
Yoga and it is simply called Mayurasana.

The position of legs up has vast documentation. It is also
known as the Viparita-Karani-Mudra and is found in
many sacred texts.

There is also the famous VAJROLI-MUDRA, which is
used for the sexual transmutation of single people and it
very much helps those who work with the Sahaja
Maithuna.

This series of exercises is therefore not the exclusive
property of a single person. As I say, many publications
have been made, but there are very few who know the
esoteric aspect of them.

I know the esoteric part, not only because of what the
aforementioned publication from Costa Rica has said or
many others that we have seen and that speak of these
exercises, but from a very long time ago. I have known it
practically since Lemuria, because, for example, I
practiced the Viparita-Karani-Mudra intensively when I
was reincarnated in the Mu Continent of Lemuria and I
know that it is very important.


Now I am going to show you the practical part. Later you
will be able to teach the brothers of the Gnostic Movement
all this that you are learning here in the Patriarchal
Headquarters of the Gnostic Movement in the capital city
of Mexico, and I would be very happy if all of them learn
the six rites. What I am going to teach you is not merely a
physical cultural thing.

The lamas who work at the Fountain of Youth lamasery
practice such rites: They use a small prayer mat on which
the exercises can be done. They lie down, kneel, sit, etc.
and each position or sadhana corresponds to its
meditation or prayer. Essentially each change of position
corresponds to an intensification in any of the mystical
aspects, depending on what it is.

The Divine Mother Kundalini is the central object of all
sadhana. When one is doing these practices, one is in
perfect concentration, in prayer, supplicating, begging the
Divine Mother for the most pressing need. Through Her
one can ask the Logos. She intercedes before the Logos,
when asking for someone, pleading for someone. She has
great power.

One begs the Divine Mother to intercede for someone
before the Third Logos (Holy Spirit) and to beg the Logos
for healing, the awakening of consciousness, the
awakening of this or that Chakra, etc.

Each position is different and means intensifying the
prayer, the supplication, the request. In these practices of
meditation, concentration and supplications, one can ask
his Divine Mother Kundalini that She, on her own, invoke

her Divine Spouse, the Divine Third Logos, the Most
Sacred Holy Spirit. We well know that the Spouse of the
Divine Mother is the Holy Spirit.

We must beg her, beseech her intensely so that She begs
and implores her Divine Husband to heal us from any
illness that afflicts us.

Then She will concentrate on the Logos, her Husband, the
Arch Hierophant or Arch Magician, as he is called, so that
he comes and heals the affected organ that prevents us
from being optimal..

In those moments one must identify oneself with the
Logos, with the Holy Spirit and in a tremendous,
imperative way, order the organ that is sick, saying:

    HEAL! HEAL! HEAL! WORK! WORK! WORK!

You have to speak to that organ with true faith, with
energy, with courage, because it has to heal.

It is necessary to concentrate decisively on each cell, on
each molecule, on each atom, on each electron of the
affected organ, ordering it to work, to be cured! To be
healed! And deeply concentrated on the Logos, fully
identified with the Holy Spirit, who in those moments is
doing the curing, healing the affected organ. So that organ
will have to heal and it will have to be cured.

Thus, it is advisable that everyone learns to heal
themselves. Through the power of the Holy Spirit, one can
heal oneself from any illness. Being sick is very sad, very


painful and the one who walks the path does not have to
be sick.

With these exercises, the Chakras are developed and the
organism is healed. There are very important Chakras,
such as the occipital, for example, which is a door through
which forces enter the body.

The frontal is another door through which the vital forces
penetrate the organism when the Chakras develop. The
laryngeal which, as I said, has an intimate relationship
with the prostatic, which is the sex; These two Chakras are
important for the health of the organism.

There is the Liver Chakra which, as is known, is a true
laboratory, must be developed so that the liver works
properly, because when the liver works well, the body
works very well.

There are also the knee chakras, there are two, one in each
knee and they are vital for the human body. These vortices
of force must rotate intensively so that life, Prana, health,
enter the physical body.

                    FIRST EXERCISE

The student is placed standing, with arms open in the
form of a cross, to the side and side. Then it will begin to
spin, to turn clockwise (figure 1). It is clear that the
Chakras will also rotate when performing this exercise
with some intensity and after some time of practice.

We have to pretend that we are standing in the center of a
clock and turn like the hands, until completing 12 laps. It
is clear that some will start with a few laps until the day
comes to do 12 laps. The laps will be done with eyes open;.
When the turns are finished, they will close their eyes so
as not to fall, because they end up a little dizzy depending
on the turns they reach. You have to get to do the full
exercise, which is 12 laps.




With closed eyes the disciple will remain until the
dizziness has disappeared. In the meantime, they will
continue begging, supplicating, imploring the Divine
Mother to beg her Divine Spouse to grant the healing of
this or that affected organ.

The disciple will be fully identified with the Logos,
intensely beseeching the Divine Mother so that She
intercedes for the disciple before the Logos.

It has to be turned from left to right, because among spirit
mediums the Chakras turn from right to left, in a negative
way, and that does not work. We are not mediums. The

system that I am teaching you is wonderful, because it
allows the development of the Chakras and the healing of
illnesses. All exercises complement each other.

When you execute the exercise in a practical way, you
have to concentrate deeply on the Divine Mother
Kundalini and with your feet together in a military style,
standing at attention, arms open to the side and side,
rotating from left to right, you will intensely ask for what
is most important to you.

First and foremost the healing for the organ that is affected
and for our Chakras to turn. It is clear that if they rotate
from left to right, in the same way as the hands of a clock
seen from the front, the Chakras will rotate positively; so
that they turn at the pace that is appropriate.

During these rounds you must concentrate on your Divine
Mother Kundalini, ask her to call the Holy Spirit and beg
for the healing of the affected organ, to beg the Logos to
heal it.

In addition, and this is very important, you have to open
that affected organ, telling it:

OPEN SESAME!

This powerful mantram that appears in The Thousand and
One Nights will be repeated at least 3 times. People have
always believed that it is only a pleasant story in which the
mantram appears and have not paid much attention to it,
but Open Sesame! It is a real mantram.



Open Sesame! and the affected organ is ordered to receive
the vital healing force. Then the force of the Holy Spirit
penetrates inside the organ and it is clear that it heals with
the force of the Third Logos. But this needs to be done with
a lot of faith.

                   SECOND EXERCISE

Now they have finished rotating and have opened their
eyes. Then we lie down on the floor in supine position,
which is face up with heels together and feet open like a
fan, legs stretched out, arms open to the side horizontally,
looking towards the sky or the roof of the house.




Once in position, we intensify the concentration, the
meditation on the Divine Mother Kundalini, begging her,
supplicating her to cure the affected organ.

In those moments, those who are not under healing can
ask for any other need, such as that the Divine Mother
eliminates this or that psychological ego, this or that
psychic defect, or develops in one such or that faculty or



power, etc. One has the right to ask, that is what these
exercises are for.

In this position, lying on the back on the ground, one
pleads and intensifies the prayer, the supplication, fully
identified with the Third Logos. So, lying down like this,
they now know how to beg and ask in that position (figure
2).

                    THIRD EXERCISE

You are already lying down and have made your
supplications, now raise your legs so that they are in a
vertical position (figure 3). There is no longer any need to
have your arms crossed. With your hands you can help
support your legs, trying to keep them as vertical as
possible, as shown in figure 3, without lifting your glute,
or more clearly, your waist should be well placed on the
ground, close to the floor. That is what is called in the East
Viparita-Karani-Mudra.




With this position, the blood flows to the head, reaches the
brain and puts certain areas to work, fortifying all the
senses, since it is necessary to have very good eyesight,
good smell, good touch, good hearing, good taste, etc., etc.
, etc.

The student remains in this position, intensifying his
prayers to the Divine Mother Kundalini, beseeching her,
begging her to help us obtain with her Divine Spouse the
benefit we need, the healing, the power, the disintegration
of the psychological aggregate, etc.

We have now done the exercise, we have begged the
Divine Mother to bring us the Third Logos and we have
fully identified with Him so that he heals him or awakens
this or that power, etc.

These 3 exercises are complementary and fit perfectly with
figures 1, 2 and 3.

As I already said, these exercises also serve to awaken the
Chakras and thus the Gnostic student can enter the path
of awakening consciousness. First of all you have to be
practiced, you already know the dance of the dervishes,
which are the turns, the Viparita-Karani-Mudra and other
positions.

Remember that you have to open the affected organ with
your imagination, imperatively commanding it:

Open Sesame! Open Sesame! Open Sesame!

I also explained to you that in each exercise there must be
supplications to the Divine Mother, so that she prays to
the Holy Spirit in her sacred language, so that she comes
and heals us from this or that illness, all according to the
needs of each one, etc. ., some will ask to heal, others to
awaken this or that power, others to disintegrate this or
that defect.

As I already told you, all these exercises are not merely
physical, but are 6 modes of prayer. It is a different system
of healing and rejuvenation through prayer. The lamas
practice these 6 rites on the prayer mat. A carpet or mat
can also be used according to the customs and languages
of different countries.

It is clear that one has to get used to these exercises very
patiently, slowly, until the day comes when the exercises
are done with ease. This is not to do it all at once, no.

You have to get the body slowly and little by little used to
doing these exercises until you do them correctly and
some can last days, weeks, months or even years.

These exercises are not for citizens of this or that country
exclusively, but they are for all the Gnostic citizens of the
world.

I don't understand how it is possible that people are
involved in patriotism where they believe that their
country is different from others. Men have divided the
earth into segments and for each segment they place a flag,
erect statues to their heroes and fill the borders with
savage hordes armed to the teeth, and then they call it their
homeland.


It is very sad that the Earth is divided into countries. The
day will come when the humanity of the earth will have
to change. Unfortunately it will only be possible after the
great cataclysm. Then we will have converted the planet
Earth into a single Great Homeland, but I digress. Let's
focus on the exercises that I am teaching.

                  FOURTH EXERCISE

Now you kneel there on the ground, or you kneel facing
East (figure 4), towards where the sun rises. Tilt your head
down a little, just a little, not much.

Then about 3 Pranayamas should be done, like this:




Place the index finger of the right hand on the left nostril,
inhale through the right nostril.

Now press with both fingers, index and thumb, the two
nostrils and hold your breath for a few seconds.

Next, uncover the left nostril and exhale all the air; then
inhale through the left nostril, covering the right nostril
with the thumb, press with the thumb and index finger
and hold the breath and then exhale through the right
nostril; this is a complete pranayama. The exercise is
repeated two more times, until completing three
Pranayamas.

Remember that only the two fingers are used, exclusively
the index and the thumb of the right hand; one closes with
one, inhales through the other nostril, both are closed, the
other is uncovered, etc., it is a game that when closed with
one is uncovered with the other and vice versa.

You have already done that exercise, now lower your
head, enter into prayer with the Divine Mother Kundalini
Shakti, begging her for what you need, etc.

                    FIFTH EXERCISE

Now as it is, lean your body backwards keeping the
kneeling position (figure 5), continuing with the arms
linked along the body. Then tilt your body well
backwards, as far as you can stand, and stay in that
position for a few seconds, begging, supplicating,
imploring the Blessed Mother Kundalini to intercede for
you before the Most Sacred Holy Spirit, to grant you the

benefit you have requested, either healing or of any other
nature.




This exercise is rather short, due to how strong or forced it
is, but it is very good to speed up the body and burn some
toxins. The interesting thing is to do the best we can.

Remember very well that in each exercise there is a need
to pray and plead intensively, or if necessary crying, so
that She calls the Third Logos and heals the organ that is
sick.

Remember that She is the mediator, the one who can
invoke the Logos who is her Divine Spouse, the Most
Sacred Holy Spirit, Shiva (as they say in the East), the Arch
Hierophant and Arch Magician, the Firstborn of Creation,
the Swan of living plumage, the White Dove, the Immortal
Hiram Abiff, the secret Master whom all of us made the
mistake of murdering in the past, and we murdered him
when we committed the original sin. That is why we need
to resurrect him from the dead, exclaim with all the
strength of our hearts: The King is dead! Long live the
king!

                    SIXTH EXERCISE

We will now proceed as follows: We will sit on the floor
with our legs stretched out in front of us and our hands
placed behind us on the floor, the trunk of our body
leaning slightly backwards resting on our hands, our
heads facing forward, our heels together in a fan shape
(figure 6). Here again we make the request, the plea with
great faith and devotion to the Divine Mother.




                  SEVENTH EXERCISE

Now, to perform this exercise, it is enough to shrink your
legs a little, placing the soles of your feet on the floor and
raising your glute and stomach, thus remaining in a


tabletop position, with your knees and abdomen in an
horizontal line.

The face should be looking up, at the sky or roof of the
house. The body must be supported by the hands and feet
but face up, forming a human table according to figure 7.




In this position, you should intensify your prayers and
supplications to the Blessed Mother Devi Kundalini,
imploring her to invoke her Divine Husband, the Most
Sacred Holy Spirit, to come and do the healing you need.

I have explained this several times, but it is good that it is
not forgotten so that the exercise is complete, because it is
not just about something merely physical, it is about
something different, spiritual, balanced.

                   EIGHTH EXERCISE

We will now see the exercise called Mayurasahna. First of
all, it is necessary for you to do three complete
Pranayamas again, just as you did in exercise #4.



After doing the Pranayamas with great devotion and
entrusting your Divine Mother Kundalini, you will place
yourself in the lizard position, as shown in figure 8.




Many people practice the lizard to get rid of a bulging
abdomen, that is, with what we call a chubby, inflated
belly or stomach.

The Master himself placed himself in the lizard position to
teach me the exercise in a practical way so that I would
learn it exactly without any mistakes. As I was doing the
exercise, he was explaining to me in detail all the details of
the said Asana as follows:

With the palms of the hands on the ground, supported in
the manner of a lizard, stand on the fingers of the feet
keeping the legs stretched out behind. The face looking
forward, keeping the head, neck, back, glutes and legs up
to the heels in a straight line, just like a lizard (Figure 8).


Then lower your head, tuck it under your chest as far as it
will go, and then do the following movement: lower your
stomach and legs to the floor, resting on your hands and
the fingers of your feet, without bending your arms. Then
go back to the first position, up, then down, up, etc. (figure
9).




Here pray to the Divine Mother Kundalini so that she
activates all her Chakras. Now you are going to do the
exercise to see if you have learned to execute it.

I went to the place occupied by the Master and began to
execute the exercise of the lizard or what is the same the
position of Mayurasahna, I placed the palms of my hands
on the mat or carpet, then I stretched my legs backwards,
resting on the fingers of the feet and on the hands holding
the body completely straight and with the face facing
forward.

Then lowering my legs and knees without moving my
hands or feet from their initial position, I began to rise
again to the position of the eighth exercise. Then to the
figure nine position, i.e. up, down, up, down, etc.

                   NINTH EXERCISE

When I was doing the previous rite, the Master told me:

"Now, finish executing the exercise and I'll show you the
next one": from that position, as you have your head
tucked under your chest, in the push-up exercise, keeping
your hands still in place, take a few short steps forward ,
until it becomes a human arch, as it is in figure 10.




Thus, leaning on hands and feet, with the head tucked
under the chest, forming a perfect human arch, you can
and must enter into prayer, asking, begging, imploring, as
I have already taught you, to the Divine Mother for what
you need most. Underneath cars and carts can pass,
because it must form a kind of human arch.

Now, after spending a moment in that prayer position,
lower your knees a little, lower your body, raise your
hands and stand up. Thus ends the exercise. Remember
that with that human arch position, as you have done, the


blood comes to the head and eliminates toxins, cleans the
lymph and irrigates all areas of the brain.

These exercises are very special to get rid of a bulging
stomach. I don't know why people love to keep the curve
of happiness. One should never have a stomach full of fat.
With this exercise, goodbye belly.

                   TENTH EXERCISE

Lie down supine on the floor, then raise your legs and
place them vertically on a wall. For this exercise, you must
stand very close to the wall, your back on the floor without
a pillow, arms at your sides slightly bent, on the floor.
(Figure 11).




This exercise is special to carry out a great work, which
only the Most Sacred Holy Spirit can execute within our
organism.

It is that we have a moon in the brain, which makes us in
fact lunar beings, with a negative and lunar behavior. On
the other hand, in the region of the navel we have a
wonderful sun.

Since we left Paradise, the luminous sun of the brain
instead went to the navel and the cold moon went to the
brain. Then, knowing this aspect and being in this
position, we pray to the Most Sacred Holy Spirit to
perform this transplant on us, to remove the moon from
the brain and place it in our navel and in turn remove the
luminous sun from our navel and deposit it in our brain.

It is clear that it corresponds to us incessantly, constantly,
permanently, to do the Viparita-Karani-Mudra exercise.
We have to beg, supplicate, implore the Holy Spirit to
grant us the grace to make this change, to place the moon
that we have in our brains in our navel, and the sun that
we have in our navel, take it to our brains.

This is a job that can only be done by the Third Logos. One
must implore and beseech deeply concentrated in the
Third Logos, so that He comes and makes us that
transplant of the moon to the navel and of the sun to the
brain.

This Viparita-Karani-Mudra is a true rite, wonderful to
achieve the rejuvenation of the physical body. Regaining
youth is urgent and necessary. The body must remain
young and invigorated in the initiate who walks along the
path of the razor's edge.



Whoever manages to do this exercise for a period of 3
hours will defeat death and regain youth, although they
should start with 5 minutes at the most and then increase
the time gradually, slowly, patiently, slowly; for example,
we will increase one minute daily.

For those who yearn to rejuvenate the body and cure
themselves of all illnesses, here we give you the wonderful
formula: the Viparita-Karani-Mudra. Is it understood?

                   VAJROLI-MUDRA

          TRANSMUTATION FOR SINGLES

We are going to enter the study of the sixth rite, which is
exactly related to the VAJROLI-MUDRA. It is about the
transmutation of sexual energy. This type of energy is the
finest that the organism builds. It is, let's say, the most
subtle force with which the body works.

The human vehicle has certain very fine channels through
which energy circulates, which cannot leave its ducts.
When the energy bursts into other channels, of course
there is a catastrophe.

It is a wonderful explosive force that we have to learn to
manage wisely if we truly want the intimate self-
realization of the Being.

Undoubtedly, the VAJROLI-MUDRA is very special for
single people, although it also helps married people. In a
specific way we could say that singles have with the
VAJROLI-MUDRA a fundamental system to sustain
themselves in Brahmacharya, that is, in chastity.
Those who do not have a wife, or women who do not have
a husband, have to support themselves in Brahmacharya,
that is clear, until the day when men have their priestess
and women their husband.

Many bachelors would like to be fulfilling their sexual
functions with different women, but that is fornication
and that is prohibited for aspiring members. The
individual who truly aspires to become adept cannot be
mixing with different women, because in this case the Law
is being violated. It is against the Sixth Commandment of
the Law of God.

The celibate must remain firm in Brahmacharya until his
wife arrives. He has to establish himself firmly in
Brahmacharya and it is not possible to remain in
Brahmacharya when one does not know how to transmute
the sexual energy.

Who wants to learn to transmute has to know in depth the
VAJROLI-MUDRA. If you don't know this, you don't have
the science for transmutation.

Among other things, the VAJROLI-MUDRA has the
advantage that the celibate can, despite being alone,
preserve his sexual potency and not lose his virility.

Normally, an organ that is not used atrophies. For
example if one stops using their hand, then it atrophies. If
you stop using a foot, then it doesn't work anymore.
Likewise, if he stops using his creative organs they simply
atrophy and the man becomes impotent and he is already
doing badly.

With the VAJROLI-MUDRA one can preserve his sexual
potency all of his life. I do not want to say, and I clarify,
that with the VAJROLI-MUDRA an individual is going to
create the superior existential bodies of the Being. I am not
making that type of affirmation, nor am I saying that with
this, the intimate self-realization of the Being is going to be
achieved.

Whoever wants to self-realize has to work in the Forge of
the Cyclops, that is clear. It happens that with the
VAJROLI-MUDRA one works with a single force, in the
case of the man, well, with the masculine and in the case
of the woman with the feminine, nothing more.

In order to create the superior existential bodies of the
Being, something else is needed. It is necessary to work
with the three forces of nature and the cosmos:
MASCULINE FORCE (in men), FEMININE FORCE (in
women), NEUTRAL FORCE (which reconciles the two).

As I have said on other occasions, the masculine is the
Holy Affirmation, the feminine is the Holy Denial and the
neutral is the Holy Conciliation. It is clear that in order to
be created, the three forces are needed. That is why the
Maithuna is essential to be able to create the superior
existential bodies of the Being.

Ordinary people do not possess astral, mental, or causal
bodies. Such bodies must be created and can only be
created through the Maithuna or sexual magic.

However, I repeat, the VAJROLI-MUDRA serves men
who do not have a woman, women who do not have a

man, and also couples who are working with the Sahaja
Maithuna, because it helps them to sublimate and
transmute sexual energy.

Therefore the VAJROLI-MUDRA is indeed very useful for
singles and married couples. With this explanation, I am
going to give the VAJROLI-MUDRA technique.




First you do what I'm doing (Teacher started executing the
exercise to give the practical demonstration). I'm standing
here and leaning slowly after having put the palms of my
hands on my two legs, then I'm leaning, not towards the
sides, not backwards, but forwards like someone making
a very deep bow and I slowly lower the palms of my
hands, until I reach my knees, but as I am doing this
operation, I am exhaling the breath, in order to empty my
lungs of all air, so that by the time I can grab my knees, I
have no air in my lungs.




Then slowly I raise my body, I straighten myself while my
feet remain united and firm on the ground, I stand straight
and bring my hands to my waist in a way that is called a
pitcher with my hands on each side of my waist.

The exercise begins as it is in figure N° 12, continues
according to figure N° 13, and returns to its initial position,
that is, to figure N° 14. Now continue giving the practice
like this:

Here we are ready to continue the exercise, but I still
haven't inhaled my breath and my lungs are completely
empty. Now I continue raising my hands in the direction
of the creative organs, but I have not yet filled the lungs
with air. Now I do a massage on my prostate, so that the
vibration touches the prostate and the sexual
transmutation takes place.




I not only do the massage on the prostate (see figure 14),
but I can and must do it firmly on the sexual organs. After
I have already massaged the creative genital organs, I raise
my body again until it is completely straight (see figure
12), with my hands on my waist.

When I have already performed the massage and returned
my hands to my waist, I inhale, filling my lungs with air,
taking the energy to the brain through the Ida and Pingala
channels. Then I exhale slowly and repeat the same
procedure three times.

I am giving you this explanation so that those who read
your book know what the VAJROLI-MUDRA is like,
which serves as a transmutation for celibates, or for those
who still do not have a wife.

The Master began by giving me a complete practical
demonstration on the Vajroli-Mudra as follows: First,
before beginning the exercise, he placed his hands on his
waist. Then he put both hands forward, a little below the
navel, close to the body, lowering them little by little until
they reached the knees, and then he exhaled all the air in
his lungs.

He then raised his hands to his waist again and quickly
took them to his sexual organs and prostate, doing a light
massage on his sexual organs and prostate. Then he raised
his hands to his waist again and breathed deeply, carrying
or raising the creative energy with his imagination to his
brain.

This exercise was repeated by the Master three times and
then he ordered me to repeat it exactly as he had done it
to verify if I had learned the Vajroli-Mudra correctly.
When I repeated it and he verified that I had understood
it, he continued telling me:

As for massages on the prostate and on the sexual organs,
there are three types of massages:

FIRST, a soft massage on the prostate and sexual organs.

SECOND, a medium massage, which is a little stronger on
the prostate and sexual organs.

THIRD, a strong massage on the prostate and sexual
organs. It is obvious that strong massage on the prostate
and sexual organs produces the erection of the Phallus. It
has to be that way.

That is why this third type of massage is advisable
especially for singles or for those who do not have a wife.
For them, this third type of massage is recommended, so


when the Phallus is erect, the transmutation of the semen
into energy takes place and it is made to rise to the brain.

As for married people, the first and second types of
massages suit them and nothing more. Even the first is
more than enough since they have a wife and of course,
they bring the Phallus to full erection through the Sahaja
Maithuna. So there you have what in the East is called
VAJROLI-MUDRA.

I interrupted the Master asking: In the case of women,
would the massages be in the ovarian region and in sex
itself?

The Master replied: In the case of women, the VAJROLI-
MUDRA is the same, only that the massages must be
performed or must be done by the woman on the left and
right ovaries and on her female organs, in the vagina or
Yoni, that is to say in their female sexual organs to be more
clear. Then the transmutation of the woman's sexual
energy takes place.

The same for married women, because they do not need a
strong massage, only soft. The single woman needs a
slightly stronger massage in order to produce the
transmutation of her own sexual energy. It is necessary for
that energy to rise to the brain.

Therefore, it is necessary that there be a great force of will
during the VAJROLI-MUDRA, and that no lustful thought
crosses the minds of the students. The senses must be
controlled, the mind must be subdued.


When VAJROLI-MUDRA is practiced, one has to be
concentrated on the Divine Mother Kundalini, or on the
Third Logos. If one concentrates exclusively on the sexual
organs during the practice and forgets the Divine Mother
and the Third Logos, then the energy is not sublimated
and that goes against the Cosmic Law.

Also, keep in mind that if the human being does not have
enough purity in his thoughts, he can degenerate and
become a masturbator. For the impure and masturbators
it will be the abyss and the second death, where crying and
gnashing of teeth are heard.

Thus, the VAJROLI-MUDRA is for completely chaste men
and women, who are truly willing to follow the path of the
most absolute chastity. The Vajroli-Mudra is also for
women, who are willing to follow the path of absolute
chastity.

The strong Vajroli, very potent, can only be practiced once
a day and for this the individual needs to be very serious
and respectful of his own body. I'm talking about singles.
A married individual does not need to practice strong
Vajroli, as he gets an erection with his priestess wife.

Likewise, a woman who has a husband does not need to
practice strong Vajroli, as she transmutes her energies
with her husband. Both married men and married women
should make their Vajroli massages extremely gentle.
What is sought is to raise that subtle and delicate creative
energy to the brain.



In the case of a married man, as I already indicated, only a
light massage on the prostate and sexual organs is enough.
In the case of women, a light massage on the ovaries and
uterus, in a very subtle and gentle way, as it does not harm
anything can be practiced every time you work with the
six rites taught in this book, without the least damage. In
this way the sexual energy is sublimated constantly,
incessantly and taking advantage of it for regeneration.

I am speaking to you, then, very clearly, so that you
understand me. This system as I have taught you here is
the Tibetan system. I repeat that purity is needed and no
lust or bad passionate thoughts, because then the edge of
the sword is turned and the student can roll into the abyss
if he misuses these teachings.

I believe that the Gnostic brothers have already
understood the purpose of VAJROLI-MUDRA, and I will
not exhaustively repeat that this is the most practical and
precise system of sexual transmutation for singles.

When teaching the practice of VAJROLI-MUDRA I have
to say the following:

The fatal antithesis of VAJROLI-MUDRA is the horrible,
filthy and abominable vice of masturbation. Those who
practice masturbation go to the abyss, towards the second
death, for having profaned their own body, for having
insulted and profaned the Holy Spirit, the Third Logos,
with their deeds.




Take good care of yourselves, then, the brothers and
sisters who practice the VAJROLI-MUDRA from falling
into the abominable and disgusting vice of masturbation.

The VAJROLI-MUDRA is something very holy, very
sacred, and for this a tremendous chastity is required, a
great sanctity, an enormous love for the Most Sacred Holy
Spirit and the Divine Mother Kundalini.

I do not want to say that with the VAJROLI-MUDRA the
Kundalini will be awakened, as I said before, or that the
superior existential bodies of the Being can be created, no.
Only the semen is transmuted into energy, that's all.

It is clear that to awaken the Kundalini, the cooperation of
the 3 forces of nature and the cosmos is needed. We have
already said this before, but it is worth remembering it
once again so that it is well engraved in the mind.

The first force is the HOLY AFFIRMATION, the second
force is the HOLY DENIAL and the third force is the
HOLY CONCILIATION; that unites them both. The
Kundalini can only be developed through sexual magic or
Sahaja Maithuna, that is, with the cooperation of the three
forces.

The man has the positive force, the woman has the
negative force, and the Holy Spirit reconciles both. With
the fusion of the three forces, the Divine Kundalini
awakens.

The superior existential bodies of the Being could not be
created with a single force. Man has a force, the Holy

Affirmation, the woman only has the negative force, the
Holy Denial.

It is only possible to create with the union of the three
forces: the positive or masculine, the negative or feminine
and the neutral that coordinates and fuses both, only in
this way is creation possible.

Transmutation is always indispensable. It is an organic,
fundamental necessity. It has been necessary to talk
extensively about this aspect since the VAJROLI-MUDRA
is a wonderful system of transmutation for singles. This is
practiced in India, in Tibet and in the lamasery monastery
entitled "The Spring of Eternal Youth".

The objective of this system is to raise the creative energy
to the brain and to inseminate the brain and cerebrize the
semen”.




           CHAPTER 18
  THEURGY FOR THOSE POSSESSED
     WORKS OF BLACK MAGIC
            SORCERY
In this chapter we are going to present a series of jobs that
can be done to help a person who has been possessed by a
dark entity, or who is a victim of black magic or sorcery.
This is something that happens much more frequently
than what people think.

When this type of thing happens, in general, official
medical science cannot diagnose the causes of the illness
or many times the diagnosis is schizophrenia in the case of
the possessed. This obviously exists in some cases, but for
others this is not so.

When the cause of the sufferings of the patient does not
receive an adequate diagnosis, it is evident that he cannot
receive adequate treatment. Therefore, people spend their
entire    lives   undergoing      psychiatric    treatment,
enclosement in an asylum or in the worst case sometimes
they die victims of works of black magic or sorcery.

Once the problem has been accurately diagnosed, there
are many ways to help this type of patient, which we will
study below.




                    POSSESSION
                       DIAGNOSIS

When the person behaves strangely, his gaze begins to
take on a hypnotic force and paranormal phenomena take
place around him and in his house. There is a great inner
restlessness and sometimes even the person himself can
clairvoyantly see the entity that torments him. They
should submit it in these cases, to a system of spiritual
diagnosis.

The operator (theurgist) puts his thumb, index and middle
fingers together on the patient's crown and is told: "In the
name of CHRIST, by the power of CHRIST, by the majesty
of CHRIST." If the patient cries, then he is possessed.

Another infallible method to diagnose a possessed person
is to gently place the point of the sword on the chest, at the
level of the sternum, and recite the Conjuration of the 4
Elements and the Conjuration of the 7 Genii. If he does not
react in any way, he is not possessed. However, if he is,
there are always reactions that can be movements of all
kinds, screams, or more intense manifestations of
desperation.

MANNER OF EXECUTION

1. When the diagnosis to know if a person is possessed by
some negative entity is positive, then the following
exorcism procedure must be operated.



2. The operator, at the time of work, must protect himself
against negative energies by using, for example, woolen
clothing, a pentagram and/or a crucifix hanging around
the neck, inside the clothing, and a copper belt with a five-
point star forward.

3. You must also have a jar with water previously
exorcised, with the exorcism of water and then blessed.

4. The operator makes an incense of rue, sage and
wormwood, around the patient who is sitting in a chair.

5. The incense will continue to be used throughout the
procedure.

6. The standing operator stands in front of the seated
patient.

7. He places the point of his sword, in the center of the
patient's chest, at the level of the sternum.

8. Conjuration of the 4 elements.

9. Conjuration of the 7 Geniuses.

10. It is very possible that the person possessed reacts with
screams or strange movements of parts of his body.

11. He makes passes with the sword, cleaning with the
mantram S, throughout the body and the entity is strongly
ordered to withdraw from that body and leave that person
alone.

12. The sword is cleaned in the burning coals frequently.

13. At the end of the cleaning with the sword, the person
is cleaned, and the entity is ordered to withdraw with a
whip, made especially for these jobs.

14. This whip is made with virgin sheep wool and
horsehair, making a braid with 7 knots. In each knot, a
magical prayer of different power must be recited, such as
the Our Father, Conjuration of the 4, Conjuration of the 7,
etc.

15. With this instrument, the person's body is cleaned
again, ordering the dark entity to withdraw and leave the
sick person in peace.

16. If at any time during the cleaning with the sword or
with the whip the possessed person gets out of control, a
glass of the blessed water that we have reserved is thrown
in his face. That immediately calms him and we can
continue working.

17. It is convenient that the operator is accompanied by 2
or more men to help him in case of need.

18. After these cleanings the V.M. SAMAEL is invoked
and is asked that with the powers that are conferred on
him, remove that entity from the person and protect him
so that the entity cannot return to that body.

19. Lastly, the operator blesses the sick person on the head:
“In the name of the Father, in the name of the Son, in the
name of the Holy Spirit and in the name of the Most Sacred
TETRAGRAMMATON”.



20. To finish the work, the operator closes the patient with
the magic circle of protection, above the head,
pronouncing       the    mantra      HELION       MELION
TETRAGRAMMATON three times.

21. The complete work should not last more than half an
hour.

22. The work must be repeated, as many times as
necessary, so that the person heals.

23. Between one work and another there is a gap of about
three weeks

 SYMPTOMS OF ATTACKS BY NEGATIVE FORCES
Headache, like spears in the head. Heartburn, spleen pain,
feel sleepy, skin rash (pink spots), night attacks.

        TO UNDO WORKS OF BLACK MAGIC
We remember that to undo all kinds of works of black
magic or sorcery, one of the most powerful and efficient
works is the elemental magic of the LEMON TREE, as
described in chapter 7 of this book.

    TO UNDO WORKS OF BLACK MAGIC IN THE
                 PHYSICAL WORLD
If someone throws black magic works towards our house,
they are disarmed by pouring honey on them, honey on
the hands and throwing them outside.

In the event that black magic works continue repeatedly,
they are wrapped in a sheet of beeswax and buried. This


returns the job to the one who performed it. This is done
only in the case of successive attacks.

Everything can be complemented with requests to the
Venerable Masters Samael, Morya and Zanoni and Pluto
who are specialists in protection against all kinds of
attacks from negative forces.

            AGAINST NEGATIVE ENERGIES
To disintegrate all kinds of negative energies, enmities,
hatreds, quarrels, bad thoughts, etc., you must operate
with the elemental magic of FIQUE or MAGUEY (agave
plant), as described in chapter 7 of this book.

    PROTECTION AGAINST ATTACKS OF THE
                     TENEBROUS
There is a Magical Conjuration, very simple and of great
power that must be recited with great faith and projecting
energy:

“In the name of Jupiter, Father of the Gods, I conjure
you: TE VIGOS COSLIM”.

   PROTECTION AGAINST ONEIRIC SEDUCTION
                FROM THE TENEBROUS
 The following mantric chant should be sung with great
faith and feeling before falling asleep:

              “BELLIN, BELLIN, BELLIN.
                 Amphora of Salvation;
            I would like to be close to you,
         Materialism has no strength next to me.
              BELLIN, BELLIN, BELLIN."

  PROTECTION FOR THE NIGHT, FAMILY AND
                       HOME
You invoke the Angel GABRIEL, and say this prayer:

         “Thirteen thousand rays has the sun (I)
         Thirteen thousand rays has the moon (-)
            Thirteen thousand times may the
             enemies that I have repent (O).”




These signs and the prayer are made once towards each
cardinal point. They are made by extending forward the
thumb, index and middle fingers of the right hand.

   PROTECTION WITH TALISMAN AGAINST ALL
    KINDS OF FORCES OR NEGATIVE ENTITIES
One of the most powerful talismans that exists to defend
against the attacks of the tenebrous or any type of negative
forces or energies is the ESOTERIC PENTAGRAM.




 A talisman of protection can be made, with the flaming
star and the 7 metals that correspond to the 7 esoteric
planets.

Silver for the Moon, mercury (quicksilver) for Mercury,
copper for Venus, gold for the Sun, iron for Mars, tin for
Jupiter, and lead for Saturn.

It can be used as a medallion, hung around the neck, rings
on the ring finger, the esoteric pentagram can be drawn on
a very white lambskin to have it inside the room, it can
also be drawn on glass.

You can instantly crystallize the pentagram, with certain
secret mantras, to protect yourself at any time:



                         KLIM,
                      KRISHNAYA,
                     GOVINDAYA,
                       GOPIJANA,
                     VALLABHAYA,
                        SWAHA

            CONJURATION FOR ENEMIES
For the Love of the Father.
For the Mercy of the Son.
And by the Force of the Holy Spirit.
I conjure my enemies and dare them to subside.
If they don't want to be incinerated by fire
of the Most Sacred Holy Spirit.
With two I see them, with 3 I tie them,
with the Father, with the Son and the Holy Spirit.
If they have eyes, they do not see me.
If you have language, they do not insult me.
If you have ears, they do not listen to me.
If you have feet, they do not chase me.
By the Grace, by the Mercy of God
I conjure you enemies to retreat.

                 ROYAL CONJURATION
"I conjure all your enemies, both inner and external, in the
portal of Bethlehem, I conjure them and I conjure them
again if they have a pact with the Devil, Black Magic or
backward Creeds. I conjure them so that they will come
humble at your feet, as the Lamb of the Christ at the foot
of the Cross. I conjure you and you will come meekly just
as the Lamb came from the Cross to the Eternal Father.
With two I see them, with three I fasten them in the name

of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit" (2 represents
Mother Nature and 3 represents the 3 primary forces).

  PRAYER OF OUR LADY SANTA MARTA FOR THE
                 DEFENSE OF THE BODY
"Oh! Blessed Saint Martha, very dear and worthy of God,
you are, who walks on Mount Tabor, you entered and
found yourself with the Great Serpent, with the belt of
the Mother of God you tied and bound her. Thus binding
the Heart of all my enemies who came against me in the
name of the Eternal Father and the Holy Trinity"

(Afterward, pronounce the Gnostic Creed 3 times).




                CHAPTER 19
            CURES WITH THE SUN
                      SOLAR PLEXUS
Sun baths are made in that part of the body to recharge it,
revitalize it and fill it with solar energy, in the morning
hours.

                   SEXUAL ORGANS
To revitalize and charge the sexual organs with energy,
sun baths can be done in that part of the body, as they did
in ancient serpentine cultures. It is worth clarifying that it
should be done in a place where the person who does it is
not seen by anyone.

                 HEALING SUNBATHS
                 V.M. BEINSA DOUNO
“Do sun baths every day. Although sometimes clouds or
rain appear, nothing happens, the Sun's rays penetrate
through them, and reach us.

There is nothing in the world that can hinder the powerful
rays of the Sun!

The best times to do sun baths are early in the morning or
1 hour after sunrise, until 11 am.

The sun's rays have the greatest positive effect early in the
morning and that is when they have the greatest healing
power over us.



The person exposes his back for half an hour to the Sun,
and he thinks only of the Light of the Sun and nothing else.

In this way all worries, pains, negative states, illnesses,
disharmony, etc. are eliminated.

Think about how the sun's rays penetrate your body and
charge your organs with pure, living and positive energy.

Don't think about the poor, or the rich, or the scientists, or
the fools, or the rulers, or even your illness.

Why? Because they are not the ones who are going to cure
you. This is going to be done by the sun's rays. Here's why
you have to think about them.

The sun's rays are alive. It is wrong to think that the sun's
rays are dead and have no power to heal. Actually it is
exactly the opposite.

There is no better surgeon than the Sun. He never cuts
healthy cells, but only sick ones.

Not only the sick should be exposed to the Sun in the
morning, but also those who are healthy.

Thus, those who are sick will recover, and those who are
healthy will not become sick.

There is no illness that can resist the sun's rays.

TEST THIS TRUTH AND YOU WILL CONVINCE
YOURSELVES THAT IT IS SO!


              SALUTATION TO THE SUN
Invisible Spiritual Sun
Divine Verb
You who are inside and outside of me,
Give me your Light,
give me your Strength,
give me your Love,
so I may unite myself to thee
and love my neighbor as myself.




  HEALING PRACTICE WITH THE V.M. LAKHSMI
When the Sun is rising, standing in front of the Sun, with
the arms open down at the side of the body and the palms
of the hands upwards, invoke the CHRIST, in the name of
the CHRIST (3 times) and say:

“I ask the V.M. LAKHSMI to help me to cure this disease.”

It is done 7 days in a row, rest 7 days and come back and
do it 7 times. It can be done with any Master like
PARACELSUS, GALENUS, HYPOCRATES, the ANGEL
ADONAI, it is done as soon as the Sun rises”.




                 PRAYER AT SUNRISE
                 V.M. BEINSA DOUNO
We must connect with the Sun with love, by means of
thought, emotion, consciousness and say:

            “How delightful you are to me!
             How I love you, SUN of mine!
              You rise as love in my soul
             As wisdom in my intelligence
           As power and liberty in my spirit
             As kindness in all my actions
          And as health in my physical body.”

“When you see the first ray of the rising SUN you ought
to be thrilled with joy. All depend on this joy: the
inspirations of the day, successes, illuminations. All
depend on the first ray.

When this first ray arrives to us we must already be
connected with the SUN and feel that our BEING is part
of the SUN, one with its flames. Here we find a secret of
which you should avail. You must unite with the cosmic
force which comes from the SUN.

In order to receive the most subtle of the energies which
are emitted by the SUN, we must extract them from it, and
this is done through this IDENTIFICATION of
CONSCIOUSNESS with the BEING which is in the Sun.
This is what we are told by the great Masters.

When we have prepared ourselves to witness the sunrise,
we begin to pray, to meditate, to sing, to glorify God when
the dawn blooms.”
             PRAYER AT SUNRISE
      V.M. OMRAAM MIKHAËL AÏVANHOV
 “Allow me to give you a few formulas which you may
 use while watching the sun rise. Wait until you see the
  first rays of the SUN and then, in a very loving way,
          pronounce these words in your heart.”

  As the sun rises over the world, so may the SUN of
  Truth, Liberty, Immortality, and Eternity rise in my
                         spirit.

  As the SUN rises over the world, so may the SUN of
       Love and Immensity rise within my Soul.

  As the SUN rises over the world, so may the SUN of
  Intelligence, Light and Wisdom rise in my intellect.

 As the SUN rises over the world, so may the SUN of
Gentleness, Kindness, Joy, Happiness, and Purity rise in
                       my heart.

As the bright, radiant SUN rises over the world, so may
 the SUN of Strength, Power, Energy, Dynamism and
                 Activity rise in my will.

 And as this bright, radiant, living SUN rises over the
world, so may the SUN of Health, Vitality and Vigor, rise
                    in all my body.

                    Amen, so be it!
    For the Kingdom of God and His Righteousness!
                    Amen, so be it!
                For the Glory of GOD.

      PROTECTION AND HEALING WITH THE
                      V.M. MICHAEL
The V.M. MICHAEL, the LOGOS OF THE SUN, is
invoked 3 times in the name of the CHRIST, and he is
asked with his heart and soul, to cure us, to heal us, to
protect us and to fill us with his strength, with his energy,
with his vitality so that we are able to do the work of the
father, our work and to be able to serve Humanity, and
then we pray like this:

“Oh! Divine Logos Michael, spirit of the Sun, source of
universal life. Oh! Michael, creative intelligence of our
planetary system. Oh! Michael, infinite wisdom of
everything created; permit my Lord, that your hosts
instruct me in the wisdom of the sacred fire, so that all
things that are around me, are illuminated for their perfect
spiritual growth.

Oh! great central Being, if it is your will inundate my
energy with your powerful energy, so that through you, I
may banish all evil forces, preserving health, and so that
my works are always just and gloriously resplendent for
the benefit of all beings of creation.

Oh! Michael, Malachim, Jodchavah, Sagam, Seratiel and
Agni, prodigious beings who incessantly stir nature from
the center of the cross, grant me to realize your igneous
spirit or Christic consciousness, until I realize the absolute
unity of life”.

“Venerable Archangel Michael, Archangel Michael,
Archangel Michael, Midday Sun, Midnight Sun, who rules
my destiny, I ask you to heal me and heal my heart. I beg

you, I implore you, to free the autonomous parts of my
Being that are blocked by instincts.”

I ask you to pour out your blessings on me, the joy of
living, the joy of serving, and above all, understanding to
live, helping us to develop and embody mysticism in
order to unite with our BEING.

Divine Logos Michael, spirit of the SUN, we ask you to fill
us with security, altruism and faith, to give us joy at work
and to help us remove from our minds the complexes,
sadness, that obstruct the path of success.

Divine Logos Michael, spirit of the SUN, we beg you to
cleanse our physical and inner bodies, in order to
crystallize the great Work of the Father, without the
interference from negative forces.

Divine Logos Michael, spirit of the SUN, we ask you to
cover the whole world with your Christic Solar aura, so
that the doctrine of my Lord the Christ may triumph on
Earth.

We beg you, Blessed Being, to spill your Divine Grace on
our minds, in our hearts, in our consciousness, and help
us to remain faithful and firm in the great Work of the
Father.

"Divine Logos Michael, we also ask you to grant us the
power and grace to hold us in the light and never fall."




                      EPILOGUE
I want to testify that in the writing of this book, in the same
way that has happened to me every time I prepare to
write, I have been inspired at every moment of its
elaboration by my INNER BEING, in such a way that the
physical part has only been a vehicle of its expression for
the crystallization of this work.

I was oriented in each place about what I had to put and
what I should not put, what aspects of medicine should
appear in the book and how each chapter should be
organized, so that the work would be useful in the times
of the end of this race, where willpower, lack of faith and
laziness have wreaked havoc on this humanity. The
mission of this book is not to say anything new, but to
present in the most organized and simple way possible a
large amount of knowledge that we already have.

For this reason, the author appears as the V.M. MICHAEL
who is the one who has guided the exact crystallization of
this treatise, from the world of the spirit, using the
experience lived in practice by his human aspect.

That is an impressive magic, which produces incredible
happiness and joy to see how through the heart and the
intuitional world, the BEING can operate in the physical
world making us feel an immense inspiration in our
hearts.

Dear reader, this work that you have in your hands has
descended from the superior worlds and has taken a form
in the physical world so that it is understandable and it is

totally fair to clarify that it would not have been possible
to crystallize it without the help of the V.M. SAMAEL
AUN WEOR, V.M. LAKHSMI DAIMON and especially
the V.M. GALENO.

It is our desire that the grace of UNIVERSAL MEDICINE
descend on all fair and good-willed people so that
HEALTH and HEALING crystallize in the physical and
inner bodies of all repentant supplicants.

                     OPEN SESAME




          ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
To the V.M. SAMAEL AUN WEOR and the V.M.
LAKHSMI DAIMON from whom I learned a great deal of
the formulas and knowledge contained in this treatise.

A very special thanks to the V.M. GALENO for all the
things he taught me related to MEDICINE and for his
immeasurable PATIENCE and SPIRIT OF SERVICE and
SACRIFICE, to answer hundreds of times, all kinds of
medical consultations for me and for hundreds of Brothers
and Sisters, from many countries of our universal
geography, who resorted to me to ask him for advice to
alleviate their ailments, through a journey of more than 25
years that he has been practicing natural and spiritual
medicine in this life and ESPECIALLY FOR HAVING
REVISED AND CORRECTED THIS WORK.

To the V.M. of MEDICINE, PARACELSUS, GALENUS,
HYPOCRATES,              HERMES          TRISMEGISTUS,
HUIRACOCHA, ESCULAPIUS, ANGEL ADONAI,
LAKHSMI,         ARCANGEL         RAFAEL,        ESMUN,
KALUSUANGA, SAMAEL AUN WEOR, for having
accompanied us for more than 30 years in this existence
and for having given healing help to me and my Brothers
and Sisters of the Earth in innumerable occasions.

TO GOD...




                          GENERAL INDEX
DEDICATION .......................................................................... 5

PROLOGUE ............................................................................. 7

INTRODUCTION .................................................................. 13

PART ONE - NATURAL MEDICINE ............................... 19

                 CHAPTER 1
MEDICINAL PLANTS AND NATURAL FORMULAS ..... 21

ACNE ...................................................................................... 21
STOMACH ACIDITY ............................................................ 21
HEARTBURN AT NIGHT .................................................... 21
URIC ACID ............................................................................ 21
FOOD THAT IS NOT CONTAMINATED
WITH RADIATION ............................................................... 22
TONSILLITIS ......................................................................... 22
ANAEMIA .............................................................................. 22
ANTIOXIDANTS ................................................................... 22
CLOGGED ARTERIES ......................................................... 22
ARTERIOSCLEROSIS .......................................................... 22
ARTHRITIS ............................................................................ 22
OSTEOARTHRITIS ............................................................... 22
SPLEEN .................................................................................. 23
FAT LUMPS AND SPOTS ON THE SKIN .......................... 23
HAIR ....................................................................................... 23
KIDNEY STONES ................................................................. 23
VESICULAR STONES .......................................................... 23
EXCESSIVE HEAT ............................................................... 23
WARNING ............................................................................. 24
TREATMENT ........................................................................ 26

PREPARATION OF TRINAMIL .......................................... 26
WHEAT PREPARATION ...................................................... 27
PREPARATION OF THE SOLUTION ................................. 27
DOSE ...................................................................................... 27
TESTIMONIALS.................................................................... 27
TESTIMONY 1....................................................................... 28
TESTIMONY 2....................................................................... 28
TESTIMONY 3....................................................................... 28
CELLULITIS .......................................................................... 29
BRAIN .................................................................................... 29
SCIATIC ................................................................................. 29
CHOLESTEROL .................................................................... 29
SPINE...................................................................................... 30
SPINE, WAIST, LEGS, FEET ............................................... 30
ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION....................................... 30
HEART, CIRCULATORY SYSTEM .................................... 30
VITAL BODY ........................................................................ 30
ASTRAL BODY ..................................................................... 31
MENTAL BODY .................................................................... 31
CARE OF THE BODY IN APOCALYPTIC TIMES ............ 31
DEPRESSION ........................................................................ 32
PURIFICATION OF THE BLOOD ....................................... 33
FORMULA 1 .......................................................................... 33
FORMULA 2 .......................................................................... 33
FORMULA 3 .......................................................................... 34
DIABETES ............................................................................. 34
DIARRHEA ............................................................................ 34
TEETH AND MOLARS ......................................................... 34
DIGESTION ........................................................................... 35
NATURAL DIURETICS ........................................................ 35
HEADACHE AT NIGHT ....................................................... 35
GENERAL PAINS IN WOMEN ............................................ 35
MUSCLE ACHE, TENDONS, BODY STIFFNESS ............. 35
ECZEMA ................................................................................ 35
UNBALANCED EMOTIONS ............................................... 36

BLEEDING GUMS ................................................................ 36
GUMS AND ORAL CONDITIONS ...................................... 36
ENERGIZER .......................................................................... 36
NEGATIVE ENERGIES ........................................................ 36
PYRESTATIC ENERGIES .................................................... 37
EPILEPSY .............................................................................. 37
MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS ....................................................... 37
STOMACH ............................................................................. 38
CONSTIPATION.................................................................... 38
STRESS .................................................................................. 38
FIBROMA IN THE UTERUS AND CYSTS IN
THE OVARIES....................................................................... 38
FEVER IN THE BODY .......................................................... 39
INNER FEVER, DIGESTIVE SYSTEM, INTESTINES,
DISSOLVES FAT................................................................... 39
FRIGIDITY IN WOMEN ....................................................... 39
THROAT, PAINS ................................................................... 39
INTESTINAL GASSES ......................................................... 39
ENDOCRINE GLANDS, VITALITY .................................... 40
BLEEDING, NOSE BLEEDING, AND BLEEDING IN
WOMEN ................................................................................. 40
HEMORRHOIDS ................................................................... 40
HERNIAS ............................................................................... 40
LIVER ..................................................................................... 40
FORMULA 1 .......................................................................... 40
FORMULA 2 .......................................................................... 40
FORMULA 3 .......................................................................... 41
HYPOTHYROIDISM ............................................................. 41
HYPERTHYROIDISM .......................................................... 41
FUNGI IN THE LUNGS, LIVER, BRAIN, KIDNEYS ........ 41
TESTIMONY 1....................................................................... 42
TESTIMONY 2....................................................................... 42
SEXUAL IMPOTENCE IN THE MAN ................................. 42
URINARY INCONTINENCE ................................................ 42
INFECTIONS IN GENERAL ................................................ 42

URINARY INFECTIONS ...................................................... 42
IMMUNITY ............................................................................ 43
INSOMNIA, ANXIETY, NERVOUSNESS, HYSTERIA .... 43
BOWELS ................................................................................ 43
LARVAE IN THE VITAL AND ASTRAL BODY ............... 43
SEXUAL LARVAE AND NEGATIVE ENERGIES ............ 44
LAXATIVE ............................................................................ 44
EVIL EYE ON CHILDREN ................................................... 44
SPOTS ON THE FACE OR HANDS..................................... 44
MEMORY............................................................................... 44
MIGRAINES AND HEADACHES........................................ 44
NEURALGIA ......................................................................... 44
OBESITY ................................................................................ 45
PLUGGED EARS ................................................................... 45
FEMALE SEXUAL ORGANS IRREGULAR PERIODS ..... 45
STYES .................................................................................... 45
OSTEOPOROSIS, ARTHRITIS, LACK OF CALCIUM
IN THE BONES...................................................................... 45
PANCREAS, LIVER, GALLSTONES .................................. 45
FEMALE PERIOD ................................................................. 45
BEE OR WASP STINGS ....................................................... 46
SKIN ....................................................................................... 46
NOCTURNAL POLLUTIONS .............................................. 46
POSSESSION ......................................................................... 47
SEXUAL ENHANCERS ........................................................ 47
SEXUAL ENHANCER FOR WOMEN ................................. 47
HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE ................................................... 48
PROSTATE ............................................................................ 48
SUNSCREEN ......................................................................... 48
PSORIASIS ............................................................................. 48
LUNGS ................................................................................... 49
RADIATION AND ATOMIC POLLUTION......................... 49
CELLULAR RENEWAL EXPEL DEAD CELLS ................ 50
COLDS AND FLU ................................................................. 50
NERVOUS RELAXANTS ..................................................... 50

REVITALIZERS .................................................................... 50
BODY RIGIDITY, MUSCLE PAINS, TENDONS ............... 50
SICK KIDNEYS ..................................................................... 51
KNEES AND MENISCUS ..................................................... 51
CHILBLAINS ......................................................................... 51
THRUSH IN THE MOUTH, APHTHAE,
APHTHOUS STOMATITIS................................................... 51
SINUSITIS .............................................................................. 51
TORTICOLIS, CONTRACTURES AND MUSCULAR
PAIN ....................................................................................... 51
COUGH .................................................................................. 51
TRIGLYCERIDES ................................................................. 52
TUMORS OF ANY KIND ..................................................... 52
GASTRIC ULCER ................................................................. 52
VARICOSE VEINS ................................................................ 52
VARICES IN THE TESTICLES ............................................ 52
BLADDER AND URINARY TRACT ................................... 52
WARTS................................................................................... 52
EYE VISION .......................................................................... 52
EXERCISE 1........................................................................... 53
EXERCISE 2........................................................................... 53
EXERCISES 3 ........................................................................ 54
EXERCISES 4 ........................................................................ 55
VITALITY AND ASSIMILATION OF FOOD TO PROMOTE
THE PRODUCTION OF DIGESTIVE ENZYMES .............. 55
FORMULA 1 .......................................................................... 55
FORMULA 2 .......................................................................... 56
VITAL WATER ..................................................................... 56
FORMULA 3 .......................................................................... 56




PART TWO - PHILOSOPHY OF MEDICINE................. 57

                 CHAPTER 2
KARMA, ILLNESS AND HEALING ................................... 59

               CHAPTER 3
ELEMENTOTHERAPY......................................................... 75

                         CHAPTER 4
      THE MEDICINE OF AQUARIUS AND HOW
    A SICK PERSON SHOULD PROCEED IN ORDER
TO BE CURED....................................................................... 81

                 CHAPTER 5
PREVENTIVE MEDICINE ................................................... 85

PART THREE ....................................................................... 93
MEDICAL THEURGY (SPIRITUAL MEDICINE) ......... 93

                CHAPTER 6
THEURGY WITH INNER ELEMENTALS .......................... 95

MEDICAL THEURGY WITH THE INNER
ELEMENTALS OF THE BODY ......................................... 103
MEDICAL THEURGY WITH THE INNER
ELEMENTALS FOR PROBLEMS IN THE SPINE ........... 104
      MEDICAL THEURGY WITH THE INNER
ELEMENTALS FOR OTHER ILLNESSES........................ 110
THEURGY WITH THE INNER ELEMENTALS
WHILE BATHING ............................................................... 111

                CHAPTER 7
MEDICAL THEURGY WITH PLANT ELEMENTALS .... 113


ELEMENTARY MAGIC OF FIQUE OR MAGUEY ......... 113
ELEMENTAL MAGIC OF THE LEMON TREE ............... 115
ELEMENTAL MAGIC OF THE CEDAR ........................... 118
ELEMENTAL MAGIC OF ARTEMISIA ........................... 122
ELEMENTAL MAGIC OF ROSES ..................................... 123
ELEMENTAL MAGIC OF ALOE OR ZABILA ................ 124
ELEMENTAL MAGIC OF THE POMEGRANATE .......... 125
ELEMENTAL MAGIC OF FRANKINCENSE ................... 126
ELEMENTAL MAGIC OF CINNAMON ........................... 126
ELEMENTAL MAGIC OF MINT ....................................... 126

                CHAPTER 8
WORKS OF CLEANSING .................................................. 129

CLEANSING WITH AROMATIC PLANT BATHS .......... 129
CLEANING WITH BENZOIN INCENSE .......................... 130
CLEANING WITH SULFUR .............................................. 130
CLEANING WITH PERFUMES ......................................... 130
CLEANSING OF THE AURA WITH MAGNETIC
PASSES ................................................................................ 131
EGG CLEANING ................................................................. 132
CLEANSING THE GERMS OF THE EGO IN THE
CENTERS ............................................................................. 134
PREPARING THE BODY FOR MAGIC ............................ 134
WORK FOR THE HARMONY OF THE PERSON ............ 135

                CHAPTER 9
THEURGY FOR HEALING ................................................ 139

THEURGY TO RECONSTITUTE THE AURA ................. 139
THEURGY FOR MINOR HEALTH ILLNESSES .............. 140
THEURGY WITH MAGNETIC INSUFFLATIONS .......... 140
THEURGY TO REJUVENATE THE FACE ....................... 141
THEURGY WITH HEALING WORDS (MANTRAMS) ... 142
THEURGY WITH LETTER TO THE TEMPLE OF
ALDEN ................................................................................. 144
THEURGY FOR HEALING WITH PARCHMENT
UNDER THE PILLOW ........................................................ 145
THEURGY WITH THE V.M. KALUSUANGA ................. 145
THEURGY WITH THE V.M. SAMAEL FOR
SPIRITUAL HEALING ....................................................... 146
THEURGY FOR ADDICTIONS TO DRUGS,
ALCOHOL, TECHNOLOGY .............................................. 147
THEURGY FOR ILLNESSES OF THE MENTAL BODY 148
THEURGY TO ORDER THE MIND .................................. 148
THEURGY WITH THE H.G.U. ........................................... 149
THEURGY TO HEAL THE VITAL BODY, ORGANS
AND SEXUAL ENERGY .................................................... 149
HEALING THEURGY WITH THE
ATOMIC CONSCIOUSNESS’S OF THE BODY ............... 150

                     CHAPTER 10
ASTROTEURGY ................................................................. 153

ASTROTEURGY WITH THE MAGIC SQUARES OF
THE PLANETARY LOGOS ................................................ 153
ASTROTEURGY WITH THE ZODIAC GENIES .............. 157

                  CHAPTER 11
AROMATHERAPY ............................................................. 161

FOR HEAVY ENVIRONMENTS AND TO
CLEANSE PEOPLE OF NEGATIVE ENERGIES ............. 161
TO CLEANSE HOMES ....................................................... 161
FOR PLACES WHERE MEDICINE WORKS .................... 161
AFTER BATHING WITH AROMATIC PLANTS ............. 161
INCENSES FOR WORKS OF HIGH MAGIC .................... 161
FRANKINCENSE FOR WORKS OF HIGH MAGIC......... 162
FORMULA TO BLESS PERFUMES .................................. 162
ESSENTIAL OILS (ESSENCES – PERFUMES)................ 162
SCENTED CANDLES ......................................................... 163
PERFUMES AND HERBS OF EACH ZODIAC SIGN ...... 163

                    CHAPTER 12
GEMOTHERAPY ................................................................ 165

WHITE QUARTZ FOR DIAGNOSIS ................................. 165
WHITE QUARTZ (OTHER USES) ..................................... 166
PINK QUARTZ .................................................................... 167
AMETHYST ......................................................................... 167
HEMATITE .......................................................................... 168
GOLD.................................................................................... 168
AMETHYST, BLACK ONYX, GOLDEN RAIN
TALISMAN FOR PROTECTION ....................................... 168
WHITE QUARTZ AND AMETHYST TO ASK FOR THE
GIFT OF MEDICINE, THE GIFT OF HEALING............... 168
CRYSTAL BALL ................................................................. 169

                CHAPTER 13
MEDICINE AND THEURGY FOR WOMEN .................... 171

CELLULITIS ........................................................................ 171
HAIR ..................................................................................... 171
UTERUS AND SEXUAL ORGANS ................................... 171
SEXUAL FRIGIDITY, LACK OF LUBRICATION ........... 171
RECOMMENDATIONS DURING THE PERIOD ............. 172
MENORRHAGIA ................................................................. 173
ABSENCE, DELAY OF PERIOD OR PAINFUL PERIOD 173
MENOPAUSE ...................................................................... 173
FUNGI AND BACTERIAL INFECTIONS ......................... 173
CLEANING PRACTICE FOR WOMEN............................. 174
PREGNANCY ...................................................................... 174
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF THE PREGNANT WOMAN ..... 175
DURING PREGNANCY ...................................................... 176
EXERCISE IN PREGNANCY ............................................. 177
FOOD DURING PREGNANCY .......................................... 178
GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS .................................. 178
GODDESS TLASOLTEOTL FOR ASSISTANCE
IN DELIVERY ..................................................................... 179
ABOUT CESAREAN ........................................................... 180

                CHAPTER 14
THEURGY FOR CHILDREN ............................................. 181

PLACENTA .......................................................................... 181
THEURGY WITH THE NAVEL ......................................... 181
BABY FEEDING ................................................................. 181
PROTECTION FOR THE BABY ........................................ 182
THEURGY TO PRESENT THE CHILD TO THE GODS
OF NATURE ........................................................................ 182
THEURGY WITH THE NAILS ........................................... 184
THEURGY WITH THE HAIR ............................................. 184
CLEANSING THEURGY .................................................... 185
THEURGY AGAINST THE EVIL EYE ............................. 185
PROTECTION ...................................................................... 185
VACCINES ........................................................................... 186

                            CHAPTER 15
PRAYERS............................................................................. 187

PRAYER OF MECIDICE .................................................... 187
PRAYER TO THE SOLAR LOGOS ................................... 189
PRAYER TO THE ANGEL ADONAI ................................ 190
PRAYER TO BLESS THE FOOD ....................................... 191
PRAYER IN PENANCE ...................................................... 192
PSALM 23 PROTECTION AGAINST THE
TENEBROUS ....................................................................... 193
PSALM 91 PROTECTION AND HEALTH ........................ 194


                CHAPTER 16
HEALING PRACTICES ...................................................... 197

HEALING PRACTICE TALITA KUMI MANTRAM........ 197
HEALING PRACTICE GOLDEN LANGUAGE ................ 200
PRACTICE WITH THE V.M. LAKHSMI .......................... 204
PRACTICE FOR MOMENTS OF ANGUISH .................... 205
HEALING PRACTICE WITH THE PATER NOSTER ...... 206
PRACTICE WITH THE BODY SYSTEMS AND
THEIR COLORS .................................................................. 207
PRACTICE FOR SELF-HEALING ..................................... 211

                 CHAPTER 17
PHYSICAL-ESOTERIC EXERCISES ................................ 213

PRANIC EXERCISE ............................................................ 213
TIBETAN EXERCISES TO REJUVENATE AND HEAL
YOURSELF FROM EVERY ILLNESS .............................. 218

                CHAPTER 18
   THEURGY FOR THOSE POSSESSED, WORKS OF
BLACK MAGIC, SORCERY .............................................. 259

POSSESSED ......................................................................... 260
SYMPTOMS OF ATTACKS BY NEGATIVE FORCES ... 263
TO UNDO WORKS OF BLACK MAGIC .......................... 263
TO UNDO WORKS OF BLACK MAGIC IN THE PHYSICAL
WORLD ................................................................................ 263
AGAINST NEGATIVE ENERGIES.................................... 264
PROTECTION AGAINST ATTACKS OF THE
TENEBROUS ....................................................................... 264
PROTECTION AGAINST ONEIRIC SEDUCTION
FROM THE TENEBROUS .................................................. 264
PROTECTION FOR THE NIGHT, FAMILY AND HOME 265
PROTECTION WITH TALISMAN AGAINST ALL
KINDS OF FORCES OR NEGATIVE ENTITIES .............. 265
CONJURATION FOR ENEMIES........................................ 267
ROYAL CONJURATION .................................................... 267
PRAYER OF OUR LADY SANTA MARTA FOR
THE DEFENSE OF THE BODY ......................................... 268

                 CHAPTER 19
CURES WITH THE SUN .................................................... 269

SOLAR PLEXUS ................................................................. 269
SEXUAL ORGANS ............................................................. 269
HEALING SUNBATHS ....................................................... 269
SALUTATION TO THE SUN ............................................. 271
HEALING PRACTICE WITH THE V.M. LAKHSMI ........ 272
PRAYER AT SUNRISE ....................................................... 273
PRAYER AT SUNRISE ....................................................... 274
PROTECTION AND HEALING WITH THE
V.M. MICHAEL ................................................................... 275

EPILOGUE ........................................................................... 277

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS .................................................. 280




                  ALPHABETICAL INDEX
ACNE ...................................................................................... 21
ANAEMIA .............................................................................. 22
ANTIOXIDANTS ................................................................... 22
ARTERIOSCLEROSIS .......................................................... 22
ARTHRITIS ............................................................................ 22
ASTRAL BODY ..................................................................... 31

BEE OR WASP STINGS ....................................................... 46
BLADDER AND URINARY TRACT ................................... 52
BLEEDING GUMS ................................................................ 36
BLEEDING, NOSE BLEEDING, AND BLEEDING IN
WOMEN ................................................................................. 40
BODY RIGIDITY, MUSCLE PAINS, TENDONS ............... 50
BOWELS ................................................................................ 43
BRAIN .................................................................................... 29

CARE OF THE BODY IN APOCALYPTIC TIMES ............ 31
CELLULAR RENEWAL EXPEL DEAD CELLS ................ 50
CELLULITIS .......................................................................... 29
CHILBLAINS ......................................................................... 51
CHOLESTEROL .................................................................... 29
CLOGGED ARTERIES ......................................................... 22
COLDS AND FLU ................................................................. 50
CONSTIPATION.................................................................... 38
COUGH .................................................................................. 51

DEPRESSION ........................................................................ 32
DIABETES ............................................................................. 34
DIARRHEA ............................................................................ 34
DIGESTION ........................................................................... 35

ECZEMA ................................................................................ 35
ENDOCRINE GLANDS, VITALITY .................................... 40

ENERGIZER .......................................................................... 36
ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION....................................... 30
EPILEPSY .............................................................................. 37
EVIL EYE ON CHILDREN ................................................... 44
EXCESSIVE HEAT ............................................................... 23
EYE VISION .......................................................................... 52

FAT LUMPS AND SPOTS ON THE SKIN .......................... 23
FEMALE PERIOD ................................................................. 45
FEMALE SEXUAL ORGANS IRREGULAR PERIODS ..... 45
FEVER IN THE BODY .......................................................... 39
FIBROMA IN THE UTERUS AND CYSTS IN
THE OVARIES....................................................................... 38
FOOD THAT IS NOT CONTAMINATED
WITH RADIATION ............................................................... 22
FRIGIDITY IN WOMEN ....................................................... 39
FUNGI IN THE LUNGS, LIVER, BRAIN, KIDNEYS ........ 41

GASTRIC ULCER ................................................................. 52
GENERAL PAINS IN WOMEN ............................................ 35
GUMS AND ORAL CONDITIONS ...................................... 36

HAIR ....................................................................................... 23
HEADACHE AT NIGHT ....................................................... 35
HEART, CIRCULATORY SYSTEM .................................... 30
HEARTBURN AT NIGHT .................................................... 21
HEMORRHOIDS ................................................................... 40
HERNIAS ............................................................................... 40
HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE ................................................... 48
HYPERTHYROIDISM .......................................................... 41
HYPOTHYROIDISM ............................................................. 41

IMMUNITY ............................................................................ 43
INFECTIONS IN GENERAL ................................................ 42


INNER FEVER, DIGESTIVE SYSTEM, INTESTINES,
DISSOLVES FAT................................................................... 39
INSOMNIA, ANXIETY, NERVOUSNESS, HYSTERIA .... 43
INTESTINAL GASSES ......................................................... 39

KIDNEY STONES ................................................................. 23
KNEES AND MENISCUS ..................................................... 51

LARVAE IN THE VITAL AND ASTRAL BODY ............... 43
LAXATIVE ............................................................................ 44
LIVER ..................................................................................... 40
LUNGS ................................................................................... 49

MEMORY............................................................................... 44
MENTAL BODY .................................................................... 31
MIGRAINES AND HEADACHES........................................ 44
MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS ....................................................... 37
MUSCLE ACHE, TENDONS, BODY STIFFNESS ............. 35

NATURAL DIURETICS ........................................................ 35
NEGATIVE ENERGIES ........................................................ 36
NERVOUS RELAXANTS ..................................................... 50
NEURALGIA ......................................................................... 44
NOCTURNAL POLLUTIONS .............................................. 46

OBESITY ................................................................................ 45
OSTEOARTHRITIS ............................................................... 22
OSTEOPOROSIS, ARTHRITIS, LACK OF CALCIUM
IN THE BONES...................................................................... 45

PANCREAS, LIVER, GALLSTONES .................................. 45
PLUGGED EARS ................................................................... 45
POSSESSION ......................................................................... 47
PROSTATE ............................................................................ 48
PSORIASIS ............................................................................. 48

PURIFICATION OF THE BLOOD ....................................... 33
PYRESTATIC ENERGIES .................................................... 37

RADIATION AND ATOMIC POLLUTION......................... 49
REVITALIZERS .................................................................... 50

SCIATIC ................................................................................. 29
SEXUAL ENHANCER FOR WOMEN ................................. 47
SEXUAL ENHANCERS ........................................................ 47
SEXUAL IMPOTENCE IN THE MAN ................................. 42
SEXUAL LARVAE AND NEGATIVE ENERGIES ............ 44
SICK KIDNEYS ..................................................................... 51
SINUSITIS .............................................................................. 51
SKIN ....................................................................................... 46
SPINE...................................................................................... 30
SPINE, WAIST, LEGS, FEET ............................................... 30
SPLEEN .................................................................................. 23
SPOTS ON THE FACE OR HANDS..................................... 44
STOMACH ACIDITY ............................................................ 21
STOMACH ............................................................................. 38
STRESS .................................................................................. 38
STYES .................................................................................... 45
SUNSCREEN ......................................................................... 48

TEETH AND MOLARS ......................................................... 34
TESTIMONIALS.................................................................... 27
THROAT, PAINS ................................................................... 39
THRUSH IN THE MOUTH, APHTHAE,
APHTHOUS STOMATITIS................................................... 51
TONSILLITIS ......................................................................... 22
TORTICOLIS, CONTRACTURES AND MUSCULAR
PAIN ....................................................................................... 51
TRIGLYCERIDES ................................................................. 52
TUMORS OF ANY KIND ..................................................... 52


UNBALANCED EMOTIONS ............................................... 36
URIC ACID ............................................................................ 21
URINARY INCONTINENCE ................................................ 42
URINARY INFECTIONS ...................................................... 42

VARICES IN THE TESTICLES ............................................ 52
VARICOSE VEINS ................................................................ 52
VESICULAR STONES .......................................................... 23
VITAL BODY ........................................................................ 30
VITALITY AND ASSIMILATION OF FOOD TO PROMOTE
THE PRODUCTION OF DIGESTIVE ENZYMES .............. 55

WARTS................................................................................... 52




        WORKS OF THE V.M. MICHAEL

1. OUR 15 YEARS WITH THE MASTER - THE MAGIC
OF THE PATH (RA - LO)
(21.03.2013) In Spanish, Greek, Portuguese, English.

2. REVELATION OF BULLETIN 55.
(04.19.2014) In Spanish, Greek, Portuguese, Italian.

3. PRESENTATION OF THE V.M. MICHAEL - TMM
AEON 13
(20.04.2014) In Spanish, Greek, Portuguese, French,
Italian, English.

4. PSYCHOLOGICAL DEATH - THE FIRST FACTOR OF
THE REVOLUTION OF THE CONSCIOUSNESS
(08.25.2014) In Spanish, Greek, Italian, Portuguese,
French, English, German, Romanian.

5. ALCHEMY - THE SECOND FACTOR OF THE
REVOLUTION OF THE CONSCIOUSNESS
(25.12.2014) In Spanish, Greek, Italian, Portuguese,
German, French, English, Roman, Swedish.

6. APHORISMS
(06.21.2015) In Spanish, Greek, Italian, German,
Portuguese, Romanian, French, English.
7. SACRIFICE - THE THIRD FACTOR OF THE
REVOLUTION OF THE CONSCIOUSNESS
(25.12.2015) In Spanish, Greek, Italian, Portuguese,
French, English, Romanian.

8. THE AWAKENING OF THE CONSCIOUSNESS
(25.12.2016) In Spanish, Greek, Italian, Portuguese,
English, French, Japanese, Russian, Arabic, Romanian,
Swedish.

9. THE THIRD CIRCLE (LUIS MIRANDA)
(19.09.2017) In Spanish, Greek, Portuguese, English,
Romanian.

10. THE RESOURCES OF THE INITIATE
(27.10.2017) In Spanish, Greek, French, English.

11. THE MAGIC POWER OF PRAYER
(25.12.2017) In Spanish, Greek, English, Portuguese,
French, Italian, Romanian, Swedish.

12. CHRIST-CENTRISM AND THE 7 WANTS
(27.06.2018) In Spanish, Greek, Portuguese, English,
Italian, Romanian.

13. NOTES ON NATURAL MEDICINE, PHILOSOPHY
OF MEDICINE AND MEDICAL THEURGY.
(19.09.2018) In Spanish, Greek, Portuguese, Italian,
English.
14. INITIATION AND THE ESOTERIC PATH.
(25.12.2018) In Spanish, Greek, Portuguese, Italian,
English.

15A. QUESTIONS OF ADOLESCENTS TO THE V.M.
MICHAEL.
(12.2018) In Spanish, Greek, Italian.

15B. THE REASON OF THE PRESENCE OF THE V.M.
MICHAEL AT THE END OF THE RACE.
CARLOS MAURICIO VELASQUEZ
(20.04.2019) In Spanish, Greek.

16. HOW A PERSON APPLIES HIS OWN KARMA.
(25.12.2019) In Spanish, Greek, Italian, English.

17. CONTEMPORARY ARGONAUTS.
THE MISSION ARRIVES AT ASIA…
V.M. SOFÍA + V.M. MICHAEL
(23.07.2020) In Spanish, Greek.

18. CONFERENCES FOR YOUNGSTERS.
V.M. SOFÍA + V.M. MICHAEL + F.CASTRO
(25.08.2020) In Greek.

19. PHILOSOPHY OF AGROCULTURE
V.M.SOFÍA + V.M.MICHAEL
(25.08.2021) In Spanish, Greek, Italian.
20. THE MAGIC OF THE LUMISIAL
V.M.SOFÍA + V.M.MICHAEL
(27.09.2021) In Greek, Spanish, English.

21. THE PLANET DOGUE ON KATUN 12
V.M.SOFÍA + V.M.MICHAEL
(25.12.2021) In Spanish, Greek, French, English,
Portuguese, German, Italian.

22. 7 POINTS TO NEUTRALIZE THE ACTION OF THE
SECRET ENEMY
(27.05.2022) In Spanish, Greek, Italian.

23. LECTURES ON NATURAL MEDICINE
(25.12.2022) In Greek, Spanish.

24. DIALOGUES WITH GNOSTIC STUDENTS OF
SWEDEN AND JAPAN, YEAR 2023
(25.12.2023) In English, Spanish, Greek.

25. THE GNOSTIC MISSION IN THE THIRD CIRCLE.
SECOND EDITION 2024 (WRITEN FOR MISSIONARIES)
(23.07.2024) In Spanish, French, German, English.

26. SERMONS OF THE V.M. MICHAEL IN THE TMM
AEON 13
(25.08.2024) In Greek.

27. THE MASTERS OF BULGARY AND THE GOLDEN
RULES FOR THE DISCIPLE.
(25.12.2024) In Greek, Spanish.
