The Initiatic Path In The Arcane Of Tarot And Kabbalah By Samael Aun Weor

                                      PROLOGUE

The origin of the Kabbalah is lost in the night of the centuries, there, where the universe was formed in the womb of Maha Kundalini, the Great Mother. The Kabalah is the science of number.

The author of the Tarot was the Angel Metraton who is Lord of the Wisdom of the Serpent. He was the prophet Enoch about whom the Bible speaks.

The Angel Metraton or Enoch left us the Tarot, in which is contained all Divine Wisdom.
This was written in stone. He also left to us the twenty-two letters of the Hebrew Alphabet. This great Master lives in the superior worlds, in a world of unimaginable happiness; the world of Aziluth, or in terms of the Kabalah, the region of Kether, a very elevated Sephiroth. All kabalists base themselves in the Tarot. It is necessary to study and know it profoundly. The universe is formed with the Law of Number, Measure and Weight. Mathematics forms the universe. Numbers become living entities.

Whoever enters the pure and ineffable world of Spirit, Chesed, is able to verify that in this region everything reduces to numbers. It is a region of tremendous reality.

We do not see things as they are in our world; rather we see images of things. In Chesed, one knows how many atoms there are in a table, how much karma the world owes, one knows how many molecules live in each body; it is a world of mathematics, a world of realism. One believes that one will be distanced from worldly reality in this world, and yet, one lives in reality. In a temple one knows the number of persons who are Self-Realised, and those who are not. If one enters a kitchen one knows the number of atoms contained in the food, which is to be eaten. It is a world of tremendous reality. In the world of Chesed one is able to know who is a True Man.

One night, whilst in the world of Chesed, I entered a theatre where karmas were balanced, and on a screen, the screen of creation, one could observe the activity of the Masters of Karma. The karma of the two greatest powers on earth was placed, one on each side of a huge scale. The scale inclined against the colossus of the North. It owes a great karma; it will decline, will fall devastated because that which it owes must be paid in one way or another.

The Theosophists speak of planes and sub-planes. These are the ten Sephiroth; ten emanations of Eternal Mother Space, ten waves which serve as the foundation of the Great Mother.

The seven planets of the solar system are the seven Sephiroth and the triune Spiritual Sun is the Sephirothic Crown. These Sephiroth live, palpitate within our consciousness and we have to learn how to manage them and combine them in the marvellous laboratory of our internal universe. Thanks to the Sephiroth, one can be transformed into a Man. There are also Sephirah in the same manner as there are positive ions and negative ions.

We need to realise those ten Sephiroth because they are here with us, here and now.
Those ten Sephiroth realised in an individual, transform him into a Self- Realised being.
They resemble a setting of precious gems; it is something marvelous.

The Sephirothic Crown is formed of Kether, Chochmah and Binah; one must understand the foundation of these three Sephiroth.

The FATHER: First Logos. Kether. Wisdom.

The SON: Second Logos. Chochmah. Love.

The HOLY SPIRIT: Third Logos. Binah. Power, flaming igneous principle.

KETHER: The Ancient of Days, the hidden of the hidden, the good of the good. He has thirty-one ringlets, and his beard has thirteen curls. Thirteen symbolises the Verb, the Word. About him wonders have been spoken. By means of Samadhi (ecstasy) one may meet with him in order to receive his commands. He is infinite mercy, complete wisdom.

CHOCHMAH: The Christ, Love. The Christ awaits the day that the disciple will work in the Ninth Sphere, and prepares him with infinite love. The instructor of the world is Love.

BINAH: The Holy Spirit, Igneous power. A hierophant had to cure an insane woman, and was successful. The hierophant asked for financial recompense from the family of the ill woman. Afterwards he met with the Holy Spirit who took the form of a white dove. The hierophant asked if he was doing well and the Holy Spirit replied that he was doing badly: “It is I who cure” he said, and in the face of this, the Master had to return the money. If one has the power to cure and one charges, one commits a very serious offence.

In the internal worlds, much is said in a kabalistic form. One must know how to make additions with kabalistic numbers. If one asks a Master: “How long will I live?”, he would reply in numbers.

The objective of studying the Kabala h is to prepare us for the Superior Worlds. For example: on one occasion, an Initiate asked for the faculty of clairvoyance, and internally received the reply: “You will be in eight days.” One who did not know would return to the physical body believing that in eight days he would be clairvoyant. For example if today was Wednesday, then on the following Wednesday. In reality, “eight” is the number of Job and was indicating the need for patience. He who does not know is confused in the internal worlds. Knowing the Kabalah is fundamental for understanding the language of those worlds.

Kabalistic study must obviously be accompanied by work on oneself, one must make oneself conscious of the said study, because if it remains in the intellect, at death it will be lost. If however, one has consciousness of it, it will manifest from infancy.

On a certain occasion, an Initiate wanted to know how he was in terms of his esoteric studies, and his guru spoke to him kabalistically saying, “You need fifty eight minutes in order to finish the work, and you have to bring thirty six Bolivars [Venezuela’s currency]
of thirty two kilograms and the initiations must be assessed.”

Minutes: 5 + 8 = 13; The Death.

Liberators: (Bolivars) 3 + 6 = 9; The Ninth Sphere.

Kilograms: 3 + 2 = 5; The Pentalpha.

If an Initiate lacks fifty eight minutes, this means that he has not even an hour in order to achieve liberation ; 5 + 8 = 13; death. If minutes are spoken about, it is because little time remains.

The thirty six Bolivars, San Martines or Morelos are the liberators. 3 + 6 = 9; the Ninth Sphere, sex, the work with the Lance. They are thirty six basic fundamental works. The thirty two kilograms by thirty two ways; the Pentalpha.

58 + 36 + 32 = 126 = 1 + 2 + 6 = 9

All the work is of the Ninth Sphere. This is the kabalistic language which is used in the White Lodge. Don’t forget that the additions in themselves are kabalistic additions. One must be totally practical.

Once the meanings of the twenty two arcana are known, the practical aspect of prediction will be studied so that it can be wisely used in cases of great importance. The twenty two arcana must be committed to memory. In order to really be complete kabalists, one must study; one must engrave these teachings in the memory.

                                     Inverencial Peace

                                   Samael Aun Weor

                                PART ONE
                                      ***

                       THE INITIATIC PATH
                     IN THE ARCANE OF THE
                     TAROT AND KABBALAH

                                      ***

                        ESOTERIC STUDY
                        AND DESCRIPTION
                         OF THE TAROT

                                      ***

                   “If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God
                 (the Internal God) that giveth to all men liberally,
                   and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him.
                     But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering.
                For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven
                      with the wind and tossed”. (James 1.5-6)

---

CHAPTER 1, ARCANUM NUMBER ONE, THE MAGICIAN

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD

The eyes in the upper part represent the eyes of the Father, signifying internally the infinite, the Holy Eight, the Caduceus of Mercury, the eight Kabirs who direct the planet.
The Magician is shown in right-side pro file, meaning that for the manifested, the right side is all. The Serpent protrudes from his brow, indicating that he is arisen, that he is a Self- Realised Master. The Staff of Power, which symbolises the spinal column is in the left hand which points toward the infinite, whilst the right points toward the earth, indicating that he dominates it with science, that one must ascend from below, that one cannot ascend without first descending. One needs to descend to the Ninth Sphere, which has two representations. The first is sex, the Cubical Stone; the second is the nine circles, the Atomic Infernos into which the Initiate has to descend; meaning to descend in order to ascend.

Upon his garment is a triangle with the apex facing upwards. This represents the three primary forces reunited in Kether, the ONE (1). To one side there is a table, which represents the four elements (earth, air, fire and water), the physical plane. Upon the table one finds various elements in a state of disorder: the Sword of Power, the Lingam (male sexual organ); the Chalice, representing the physical cerebrum and on the other hand, the Yoni (female sexual organ) and a Moon which must be converted into a Sun.

Beneath the table one finds the immortal Ibis, the Phoenix bird, the Kala Hansa Swan, the Holy Spirit which symbolises Love. It is beneath the table, indicating that it is by means of the Sacred Fire of the Third Logos that we have to order the disordered elements upon the table.

In the lower part of the card, in the Waters of Life, we find the Cubical Stone. The already worked Philosophical Stone indicates that this is the Work which we must realise.
This is the Cubical Stone of Jesod, the sex, Stumbling Block and Rock of Scandal.

ESOTERIC MEANING OF THE ARCANUM

One can divide the esoteric study of the Tarot into two parts; the esoteric and the mathematic. The first consists of 22 Arcana; after this begin the advances via mathematics.

Arcanum number 1 is the Magician, that which initiates, which begins; the 1. It is Unity, the Divine Spirit of each person, the Monad or Immortal Spark of each human being, of each living creature. The One is the mother of all unities. The One unfolds to become that which is the fol lowing Arcanum, the Priestess.

In Arcanum 1 we enter the Sanctum Regnum of magic; above the head one sees the Holy Eight represented by two eyes it is the symbol of the infinite, representing the eight Kabirs, the symbol of life and of death.

In the centre of the Earth, in the Ninth Sphere one finds this sacred symbol of the infinite.
All organisms revolve around this symbol, just as within the human body of one who wishes to Self-Realise there is al ways an eternal struggle: “brain against sex”, “sex against brain against heart”. If sex dominates brain it leads to the fall and the Pentagram (representing the Master) rests with the lower extremities facing upwards and the head facing downwards.

The Holy Eight is a very important and interesting symbol within which is enclosed, defined and linked the magnetic currents which are set up between the earthly man and the spiritual. This sign unites or separates all the elements ruled by atomic energy if one traces it with the thumb, middle and index fingers upon the surface of the cardiac plexus.

PRACTICE

Achieve a still and silent state of mind. Go to sleep thinking of the figure of the Holy Eight (infinity), making an outline upon the heart in accordance with the previous description. Allow the aforementioned figure to submerge itself within your consciousness, then place the mind in a blank state, without thinking of anything. Thus, after a certain period of time: “you will awaken consciousness in tha t region called the Astral World”.

If we examine the vertebral column we will see the Holy Eight, and there, the two ganglionic cords which are entwined about the spinal cord, which are represented by the Caduceus of Mercury or Hermes. These are: Ida and Pingala, the Two Witnesses, the Two Olives, the Two Candlesticks which are before the throne of the God of the Earth and which ascend to the brain to the height of the pineal gland, thence to the pituitary

between the eyebrows finally reaching the heart by means of an extremely fine thread called Amrita-Nadi.

By means of the right-hand cord the Solar atoms arise; by means of the left- hand, the Lunar atoms arise. When they ascend through the spine, they ignite our Magic powers.
The Holy Eight has been, is, and will be, the key of all. No Magician exists without the Holy Eight.

If we consider the outline of this symbol we see that it encloses a double circuit where the two forces cross; one closes and the other opens. This is the Key to open all doors. It opens our Inner Temple, it is the sign which opens the Book of the Seven Seals. In the Sacred Order of Tibet it is universally used.

This Order which we have the great honour of representing here in Mexico, is the most powerful Order of the whole Oriental tradition. It is comprised of 201 members, the higher echelon being made up of 72 Brahmans. The great Regent of the above mentioned Order is the great Guruji Bagavan Aclaiva. The Sacred Order of Tibet is the genuine depository of the royal treasure of Aryavarta. This treasure is the Arcanum A.Z.F.

EXERCISE

Immediately prior to going to bed, concentrate on the Sacred Order of Tibet and on the Holy Eight, calling the Master Bagavan Aclaiva; he will assist you to travel in the astral body. Some night we will be called to the Lodge of Tibet and in the Temple of Himalaya we will be submitted to seven tests. When one is called, one is pulled by the feet so that one may present oneself in an upright position.

One must have valour because he will be submitted to many very hard tests. We will be decapitated and pierced through the heart with a sword; one must have valour; he who has aspiration and constancy will triumph. The Sacred Order of Tibet is very exacting, here we find the true Rectors of humanity.

The Fire of Phiegethon and the Water of Acheron intersect in the Ninth Sphere, sex, forming the sign of the Infinite. One must work with Water and Fire, the origin of beasts, men and Gods. He who wants to ascend must first descend, this is something terrible, this is the greatest test, almost all fail.

Everything in life has its price; nothing is given to us as a gift. The price of Self-Realisation is our Life. One must have valour and may then be admitted to the Sacred Order of Tibet.

Our organism has the same constitution as the Earth. We have to work, and to descend to our own infernal worlds.

One has to work with sex; this is the Cubical Stone of Jesod.

---

CHAPTER 2, ARCANUM NUMBER TWO, THE PRIESTESS

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD

In the Waters of Life the two columns of the Temple of Isis are shown; the white, Jakin and the black, Boaz. Each one has four levels indicating the Four Bodies of Sin; Physical, Vital, Astral and Mental. Above, a female Master appears seated between two larger columns. She is within a temple and is facing us; for this reason the columns are reversed.
The fact that she is seated indicates to us her passive aspect. In Arcanum number 1 the Magician is standing; the active aspect. She is showing her left profile, her negative aspect.

In her lap there is a half-opened book, which she partially covers with her shawl. This indicates that she is Wisdom, that she teaches the Kabbalah. Upon her chest is the Crux Ansata, the symbol of life, of the fundament, Venus, the Tao Cross. The cross upon her naked breast signifies that its product, the Milk, are the Virtues.

The serpent upon her brow indicates Mastery; that she is arisen.

Above her head are the horns of the Sacred Bull Apis, husband of the Divine Cow.
Internally the horns signify the Father, and externally, the “psychological I” (our defects).
We also find the attributes of the Little Calf, or Kabir. The circle is the Serpent which bites its tail, representing the Cosmic Mother, the Sacred Cow. The veil which covers her face is the veil of Isis.

ESOTERIC MEANING OF THE ARCANUM

Arcanum number 2 is the Priestess, Occult Science. In the region of the Spirit, the One is the Father who is in Secret, the Two is the Divine Mother who is the Unfoldment of the Father.

The Sacred Book of the Maya, the Popol Vuh, states that God created man first from clay and later from wood (the Atlantean race) but that they forgot their Fathers and Mothers, they forgot “The Heart of Heaven”.

Then came the great flood and all perished; they took refuge in caves and these collapsed (this is a reference to the submersion of Atlantis). Each one of us has his Father and his Mother who are very sacred. In the Father and in Mother Kundalini we see the two columns Jakin and Boaz; it is they, which support the Temple.

The Hebrew letter Beth expresses the dualism of the two columns of the temple. Jakin is the right-hand column, which is white, the man, the masculine principle and Boaz the black left- hand column, the woman, the feminine principle. Between the two columns ‘J’ and ‘B’ is the Great Arcanum. It is precisely this which many masonic brothers do not understand. The Cubical Stone in its crude state is located between the two columns, and once worked it becomes the Cubical Stone of Jesod; this is none other than Sex, the sephiroth Jesod. One must know the Arcanum, the Maithuna, which is represented by the Chisel of Intelligence and the Mallet of Will.

The ineffable words of the Goddess Neith have been carved in letters of gold upon the resplendent walls of the Temple of Wisdom: “I am all that has been, is, and will be, and no mortal has raised my veil.”

The veil symbolises that the secrets of Mother Nature are hidden to the profane and that it is only the Initiate, after incessant purifications and meditations who can draw it back.

You must have valour and raise the veil of Isis, our Gnostic motto is Thelema (will-power).

The number 1, the Father who is in Secret, is the Eternal Masculine Principle, in himself Brahma; who has no form, is impersonal, ineffable. We may symbolise him with the Sun.

The number 2, the Divine Mother, is the Eternal Feminine Principle which is symbolised by the Moon. Brahma has no form but is, in Himself, the governor of the universe, is Ishvara, the Eternal Masculine Principle, the Universal Principle of Life.

The Universal Principle of Life overflows into the Eternal Feminine Universal Principle which is the Great Pralaya of the universe, of the Cosmos, fecund womb of which all is born and to which all returns.

The Cosmic Mother in the human being takes the form of a Serpent. There are two serpents; the Tempting Serpent of Eden is that of the Goddess Kali, of the abominable Kundartiguador Organ; and the Serpent of Bronze which cured the Israelites in the desert, the Serpent Kundalini. They are the two Feminine Principles of the universe; the Virgin and the Whore; the Divine Mother or White Moon and the Black Moon referring to Astaroth, Kali, the tenebrous aspect.

Arcaflum number 2 is the Priestess, in occultism said to be the Dual Manifestation of Oneness. The Unity unfolds giving origin to receptive and productive femininity in all of nature. Clearly, within the human organism is the number 2. This is related with the number 1, Will, and with the number 2, Imagination.

One must distinguish between Intentional Imagination and Mechanical Imagination;
obviously Mechanical Imagination is the same as Fantasy. The key of power rests in uniting Will and Imagination in Vibrant Harmony.

There is a key for travelling in the astral body which is very swift; upon awakening from normal sleep, one closes the eyes without moving, and with the eyes closed one vividly imagines any place (but do not imagine that you are imagining). It must be translated into fact. If you feel completely sure of being in the imagined place, Will and Imagination are thus united and it is logical that this Union being attained, the result will be Triumph. Put the Imagination into play, take a walk in the place that you are imagining with “faith”.

If one does this practice and attains the interplay of Will and Imagination (which is feminine), without moving in bed, maintaining sleep and imagining the place, putting into activity the Will, and with decision getting up from the bed, one will then be able to go wherever one wishes. On one occasion I found myself in a wood and whilst going along a track, I was told about a mountain. Because it was a dangerous place, I went to investigate it in Astral. I imagined the mountain, I saw mist, some steps, and a group of adepts. On entering that place they gave me a spoonful of bees honey, the food of the White Lodge, and the Bread of Wisdom. Later I was told that I would be purged with castor oil to cleanse my stomach. The next day I went out of the body whose stomach had been cleansed. I saw the stars, and practised the Rune MAN: the adepts commanded me to descend to the Worlds of the Infernos. I entered the region of profound darkness where I was attacked by terrible beasts. They were my “Ps” - I had to go through doors that I could barely pass, along narrow paths, and from here I went out through a cemetery. All that which is of the ego is death and misfortune; it is Mephistopheles. One must work very hard.

---

CHAPTER 3, ARCANUM NUMBER THREE, THE EMPRESS

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD

In the centre there is a woman crowned with twelve stars (1 + 2 = 3), which represents the 12 zodiacal signs, the 12 doors of the Holy City the 12 keys of Basil Valentine, the 12 worlds of the Solar System of Ors. Upon her head there is a vessel, and arising from it a Serpent, symbol of Mastery indicating that she is arisen. In her right hand is the Staff of Power, and with her left she reaches out to the dove which represents the Holy Spirit. Her apparel is Solar, all indicating that she is the Christified Soul, product of the arcana numbers 1 and 2. She is seated upon the now perfectly worked Cubical Stone.

In the waters of life the Moon is beneath her feet, indicating that one must trample upon it in order to convert it into Sun.

ESOTERIC MEANING OF THE ARCANUM

The number 3 is the Empress, the Divine Light, the light itself; it is the Divine Mother. It relates to that part of Genesis which says: “And God said: Let there be light: and there was light.” (Genesis 1.3) from the first day of creation.

It is also the number of the Third Logos which dominates every form of creation; it is the rhythm of the Creator.

The Celestial Mother in the material sphere signifies material output, and in the spiritual sphere means spiritual output.

If one makes a more profound analysis, one discovers a most interesting aspect; the number 1 is the Father who is in Secret, the Monad, and it is from here that the Divine

Mother Kundalini, the Dyad is born. She in turn unfolds into the number 3 which is Father, Mother and Son which is the Divine and Immortal Spirit in each living thing. The three, Osiris the Father, Isis the Mother and Horus the Son form that which the Sacred Book of the Maya, the Popul Vuh, calls the “Heart of Heaven”. The Son in turn unfolds into the Animic Soul which each one carries within.

The Zohar, the oldest Hebrew book and basis of the Kabalah and the Old Testament, insists upon three initial elements which comprise the world. These elements are:

Shin — which means Fire in the Kabalah.
Mem — which means Water.
Aleph — which means Air.

These 3 primary elements are the perfect synthesis of all that is, of the 4 manifested elements.

The Serpent or Saviour Logos, inspires man in order that he may recognise his identity with the Logos and thus return to his own Essence which is that Logos.

The magical power of the triangle of the Initial Elements is summarised in the powerful mantram: I.A.O.

I      Ignis Fire
A      Aqua Water
O      Origo Beginning, Spirit, Air.

This mantram should always be part of the Mystery Schools.

What we are seeing here is the esotericism of the Holy 3. The I.A.O. is the fundamental mantram of the Maithuna; it is within the Ninth Sphere that it must resound. He who wants to raise the soul of the world along the spinal colunm must work with Sulphur (fire), with Mercury (water), and with Salt (philosophical earth).

These are the 3 elements, the 3 principles for working in the Fiery Forge of Vulcan.

In Basil Valentine’s manuscript Azoth, the secret of the Great Work is found. The 12 secret keys are the sexual energy of the Logos when the Rose of the Spirit flowers upon the cross of our body.

The 3 principal elements are the 3 Hebrew letters which correspond to the 3 principal elements within the Great Work of nature. In this way we produce living gold. He who does not make Spiritual Gold is not an esotericist. One descends to the Ninth Sphere and fabricates it in the Fiery Forge of Vulcan.

The Kabalist-Alchemist must learn to use Sulphur, Mercury and Salt.

By using Sulphur in the shoes the larvae of the Astral Body and the Incubii and Succubii which are formed through the erotic imagination are de stroyed. They are transparent like the air and absorb the vitality of the Being. In the cinemas, iniquitous dens of Black Magic, which screen morbid films, they act here to one, and one has to use sulphur in one’s shoes, and with this the larvae are destroyed. By burning sulphur on pieces of carbon, harmful thought forms and the larvae within a room are destroyed. Mercury serves to prepare “Lustral Water” in the bottom of a copper receptacle filled with water (this should not be a pan or dish) place mercury and a mirror. This is used to awaken clairvoyance. Nostradamus’ divinations were made with copper and mercury.

Salt has its virtues; one can light a fire in a receptacle containing a mixture of salt and alcohol to invoke the Masters of Medicine, Adonai, Hippocrates, Galen, and Paracelsus, when someone who is ill needs to be cured.

The ternary, the number 3 is very important. It is the Word, Plenitude, Fecundity Nature, the Generation of the Three Worlds.

The Arcanum number 3 of the Kabalah is the woman robed with the Sun with the Moon at her feet, and crowned with 12 stars. The symbol of the Queen of Heaven is the Empress of the Tarot, a mysterious crowned woman, seated, and with the Sceptre of Rule which has upon its extremity, the globe of the World. This is Urania-Venus of the Greeks, the Christified Soul, the Celestial Mother.

The Divine Mother, Arcanum number 3, is the Particular Mother of each one of us, is the Mother of our Being who must trample the Moon, the lunar ego in order for the 12 Stars, the 12 Faculties, to shine resplendently upon her brow.

The 3 Primary forces which come from above, from the Father and which exist in all creation are necessary in order to create:

Positive Force.
Negative Force.
Neutral Force.

Man is Arcanum number 1 of the Tarot, the Positive Force. Woman is Arcanum number 2, the Negative Force, and the Christified Soul is the result of the sexual union of the two.
The secret is the Arcanum A.Z.F. which transforms the Moon into Sun and represents 3 aspects: Positive, Negative, Neutral.

---

CHAPTER 4, ARCANUM NUMBER 4, THE EMPEROR

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD

From the forehead of the Emperor projects the Serpent, symbol of Mas tery. The crown, formed of an asp - Thermuthis - belongs to Isis, our Particular Divine Mother Kundalini.
Upon his head is a hat with 4 points, 4 angles, representing the 4 elements, the 4 gospels, the 4 vedas etc. The hat also represents the alembic, the receptacle, the sexual organs, the stove, the Muladhara Chakra, the spinal column, and the still, the brain. In his right hand he sustains the Staff of Power. He is seated upon the perfectly worked Cubical Stone, a product of the previous arcana. Within the Stone is the cat, the fire. In the waters of life is found the Staff of Power, the vertebral colunm.

ESOTERIC MEANING OF THE ARCANUM

The Cross has 4 points. The Cross of Initiation is phallic; the insertion of the vertical phallus in the feminine ectasia forms the Cross. It is the Cross of Initiation which we must take upon our shoulders.

We must understand that with its 4 points it symbolises the 4 cardinal points of the Earth:
North, South, East and West; the 4 ages: gold, silver, copper and iron; the 4 seasons of the year, the 4 phases of the Moon, the 4 paths: science, philosophy, art and religion. In speaking of the 4 paths, we should understand that they are all really only one; this is the strait and narrow Path of the Razor’s Edge, the Path of the Revolution of Con sciousness.
The Cross is a very ancient symbol, having been employed since the beginning in all religions, amongst all peoples, and it would be errone ous to consider it the exclusive emblem of one or another religious sect. When the Spanish Conquistadors reached the holy land of the Aztec they found the cross upon their altars.

The Sign of the Cross, the sublime monogram of Christ our Lord, the Cross of Saint Andrew and the miraculous key of Saint Peter, are marvellous replicas which are of equal alchemistic and kabalistic value. It is then, the sign which can assure victory to those who labour in the Great Work.

The sexual Cross, the living symbol of the crossing of the Lingam-Yoni, has the unmistakable and marvellous mark of the 3 keys employed to immolate the Christ-Matter, a reflection of the 3 purifications by iron and by fire, without which Our Lord would not have been able to achieve the Resurrection.

The Cross is an ancient hieroglyphic which is alchemical, from crucible (creuset), which in the French was previously cruzel, crucible, croiset. In Latin, crucibulum (crucible), had as its root crux, cruxis, (cross). All this clearly invites us to reflect.

It is in the crucible where the materia prima of the Great Work suffers with infinite patience the passion of the Lord. In the Erotic Crucible of sexual alchemy the “ego” dies and the “Phoenix Bird” is reborn from amongst the self same ashes: INRI, “In Necis Renascor Integer”; “In death reborn pure and intact”.

The placing of the vertical phallus within the horizontal uterus forms a Cross; this is something which anyone may verify.

If we reflect very seriously on that intimate relationship which exists between the “S” and the “TAU”, Cross or “T”, we arrive at the logical conclusion that it is only by means of the crossing of the “Lingam-Yoni” (phallus- uterus) with the utter exclusion of physiological orgasm, that we can awaken “Kundalini”, the Igneous Serpent of our Magical Powers.

In the Nahuatl and Maya conc eption of things the Sacred “Swastika” of the Great Mysteries was always defined by the cross in movement; which is the Nahuatl “Nahui-ollin”, the sacred symbol of Cosmic Movement. The two possible directions of the Swastika clearly represent the masculine and feminine, positive and negative principles of nature. Two Swastikas, one in each direction and perfectly superimposed form without doubt the Cross Potent, and represent in this sense, the erotic conjunc tion of the sexes.

According to the Aztec legend it was a couple, a man and a woman who invented Fire;
this is only possible with the Cross in movement: INRI; “Ignis Natura Renovatur Integra” “Fire incessantly renews nature”.

The Cross also reveals the “Quadrature of the Circle”, the key of per-petual motion. That perpetual motion is only possible by means of the sexual force of the Third Logos. If the energy of the Third Logos stopped flowing in the universe, perpetual motion would cease and there would be a cosmic breakdown. The Third Logos organises the fundamental vortex of all that is born in the universe and the infinitesimal vertex of the very last atom of any creation.

With Arcanum four of the Tarot the Being takes upon his shoulders the Cross of Initiation.

If we make the following kabalistic addition of Arcanum 4: 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 = 10, we discover that 10 1 + 0 = 1; the Monad. TETRAGRAMMATON is the same as the Monad.

---

CHAPTER 5, ARCANUM NUMBER 5, THE HIERARCH

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD

In this card we find the Hierarch wearing his chain mail armour, sup porting to the right the Staff of Power. The jackal mask he uses only when he is officiating, when he is administering Justice; it symbolises the Supreme Piety and Supreme Impiety of the Law.

In the waters of life one finds the Balance of Justice, indicating that the movements, actions and reactions of the physical body are based in en ergy.

ESOTERIC MEANING OF THE ARCANUM

The number 5 is grandiose, sublime; it is the number of the rigour of the Law, it is the number of Mars and of war.

Arcanum number 5 of the Tarot indicates the Teaching, Karma and the Explanation to us.
It symbolises the fifth cycle, the fifth race, the fifth sun, the five tattwas, the five fingers, the five gospels, the five senses, the five cells of the cerebrum and the ovary, and the five aspects of the Divine Mother.

Card number 5 of the Tarot is Initiation, Demonstration, Teaching, Karmic Law, Philosophy, Science, Art. We live in the Age of Samael, the fifth of the seven; the Return to the Great Light has been initiated. Life has be gun to flow from the external inwards;
we are faced with the dilemma of To Be or Not To Be; we need to define ourselves as angels or demons, as eagles or as reptiles; to confront our own destiny.

Arcanum number 5 is the Hierophant, the Law, rigour. It is the Pentagram ablaze, the Flaming Star the sign of Divine omnipotence, this is the ineffable symbol of the Verb made flesh, the awe- inspiring bright star of the Wise Men.

Man is represented by the Pentagram; man the microcosmos, who with arms and legs extended, is the Five-Pointed Star.

The Pentagram with the two points facing upwards represents Satan, and is used in black magic to invoke the tenebrous. When the top angle is facing uppermost, it represents the Internal Christ of each man who comes to this world; it symbolises the divine, and is used in White Magic to call divine beings. If it is placed in the doorway with the two feet facing outwards, tenebrous entities will not enter. On the other hand, the inverted Pentagram, having the feet facing inwards, allows the tenebrous to enter.

                           THE ESOTERIC PENTAGRAM

In the upper angle of the Pentagram we find the eyes of the Spirit and the sign of Jupiter, Sacred Father of the Gods. Upon the arms is the sign of Mars, the symbol of force. Upon the feet, the sign of Saturn, the symbol of Magic. In the centre is the symbol of occult philosophy, the Caduceus of Mercury, and the sign of Venus. The Caduceus of Mercury represents the Vertebral Colunm, and the two wings, the ascent of the Sacred Fire along the vertebral column, thus opening the 7 Churches of the Apocalypse of Saint John (the 7 Chakras) by means of scientific chastity. The chalice, symbol of the feminine Yoni, also represents the crystallised mind, containing the wine of light which semenises the brain.
The sword is the masculine phallus. We also find the key and the pentacle of Solomon.

TETRAGRAMMATON is a mantram of immense priestly power.

In accordance with transfinite mathematics, Infinity + Infinity = Pentalpha.
                                       8 + 8 =5
Students can prepare an electrum to protect themselves from the tenebrous. In occultism, the Pentagram made with the 7 metals of the 7 planets is called an electrum.

                                     Silver - Moon
                                    Mercury - Mercury
                                     Copper - Venus
                                       Gold - Sun
                                       Iron - Mars
                                      Tin - Jupiter
                                      Lead - Saturn

One makes the Pentagram and consecrates it with the 4 elements: Fire, Air, Earth and Water; perfumes it with 5 perfumes: Frankincense, Myrrh, Aloes, Sulphur and Camphor.

These 5 substances serve to consecrate the Pentagram; the first 3 to invoke the White, the sulphur to repel tenebrous entities, and the camphor to perfume and attract success. One must learn to handle these substances. The 4 letters, Iod-He-Vau-He, must be placed upon the Pentagram and it should be worn at the neck, thus giving us extraordinary protection.

During the consecration one insufflates 5 breaths, the Christonic Real Being of the Internal Master appearing for the consecration of the Pentalpha, and the 5 Archangels, Gabriel, Raphael, Samael, Anael and Orifiel are invoked.

If we are able to prepare a metallic Pentagram and consecrate it, so too we can consecrate ourselves with the same rites and perfumes we utilised for our metallic Pentagram, because man is a Star with 5 points.

All they who feel themselves to be unclean, with larvae, or in misery, must utilise the 5 perfumes to perfume themselves, this is on the condition that they follow the Path of Perfect Chastity. In the Lumisials [Gnostics Churches] the custom of cleansing those brothers who feel themselves to be covered in larvae should be established. In this way their souls and their bodies will receive the benefits.

In the “Book of the Dead”, chapter LIX, the victor Nu says: “I am the Jackal of Jackals, and I obtain air in the presence of the God of Light and I convey it to the limits of the firmament, and to the confines of the Earth, and to the frontiers of the extremities of flight of the bird Neveh. Thus air may be granted to those young Divine Beings.”

The Hierarch of Arcanum number 5, the Jackal of Jackals is the head of the Archons of Destiny. He is Anubis, the Jackal-headed God.

The Temple of Anubis is the Temple of the Lords of Karma. Anubis con trols the books of Karma in the underworld. Each human being has his book of accounts.

They who learn to control their Ka (the astral body), can visit the temple of the Jackal of Jackals in order to consult their book and conduct their transactions.

Credit may also be solicited from the Lords of Karma. All credit must be paid for, by working in the Great Work of the Father, or suffering the unspeakable. When the Logos of the Solar System awarded me the tunic and mantle of a Hierophant of Major Mysteries, he said to me: “I here with pay you that which I owe you for the practices which you have taught.”

He who wants light must give light in order to receive his payment.

The Jackal of Jackals conducts the light to the very limits of the firma ment, reaching even to the frontiers of the bird Neveh, the enormous Serpent, one of the 42 judges of MAAT in the tribunal. This great judge is the Logos of the Solar System. The Jackal of Jackals works under the command of this great judge.

These young divine beings who work with Anubis are the Lords of Karma.

The Alchemist must learn to manage his KA in order to visit the temple of the Jackal of Jackals and put his accounts in order.

In our work with the Blessed Stone it is indispensable to consciously manage our dealings.

None can escape Justice due to the existence in the depths of our con science of the KAOM, the Police of Karma, which takes form each time it registers a positive or negative action.

---

CHAPTER 6, ARCANUM NUMBER 6, INDECISION

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD

One finds the disciple standing in the waters of life in front of a triangle with the vertex pointing downwards. His left arm is crossed over the right. All of the above signifies that the disciple is fallen; that he feels a greater attraction towards Medusa (the ‘I’) who is located to his left. To his right one finds a female Master.

This Arcanum is called Indecision because the disciple does not know which path to decide upon.

Seated in the upper part is a Hierarch of the Law with a bow taking the form of a triangle with the vertex pointing upwards. He points his ar row at the head of the Medusa, in keeping with the axiom: “The Medusa must be decapitated”.

Each figure presents to the neophyte a different path. The path of the left and the path of the right. The arrow of Justice points against the path of the left.

ESOTERIC MEANING OF THE ARCANUM

The Arcanum six is the Lover of the Tarot, signifying Realisation. The human being is found between vice and virtue, the Virgin, the Whore, Urania-Venus and the Medusa.
One finds that one has to choose one Path or the other.

Arcanum 6 is concatenation, equilibrium, loving union of man and woman; terrible struggle between love and desire. Here we find the mysteries of the Lingam-Yoni; this is the linking together.

The struggle between the two ternaries is in Arcanum number 6. This is the affirmation of the Internal Christ and the supreme negation of Satan. Arcanum number 6 is the struggle between the Spirit and the bestial. Number 6 represents the struggle between God and the Devil. This Arcanum is expressed in the Seal of Solomon. The upper triangle represents Kether, Chochmah and Binah; the resplendent Dragon of Wisdom (Father, Son and Holy Spirit). The lower triangle represents the three traitors, who form the antithesis of the divine triad. They are the de mons of desire, of the mind, and of ill- will. From moment to moment they betray the Internal Christ, and are the bases of the ego (Judas, Caiaphas and Pilate). This lower triangle is the Black Dragon.

---

CHAPTER 7, ARCANUM NUMBER 7, TRIUMPH

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD

In this card two sphinx, a black and a white appear in the waters of life. They pull a chariot, and represent the masculine and feminine forces. A warrior who represents the Intimus is standing in his chariot of war, within the Cubical Stone (sex), and between the 4 pillars which are Science, Art, Philosophy and Religion, in which he develops. The 4 pillars also represent the 4 elements, indicating that he dominates them.

In his right hand is the Flaming Sword, and in his left, the Staff of Power. The cuirass is the Divine science which makes us powerful. The warrior must learn to use the Staff and the Sword; in this way he will attain the great victory.

On his head is a hat with 3 peaks, representing the 3 primary forces. In the upper part Ra, the Cosmic Christ appears (the wings).

ESOTERIC MEANING OF THE CARD

Arcanum number 7 represents the 7 notes of the Lyre of Orpheus, the 7 musical notes, the 7 colours of the solar prism, the 7 planets, the 7 vices which we must transmute into the 7 virtues, the 7 Sidereal Genii, the 7 bodies, the 7 dimensions, the 7 grades of power of the Fire, the 7 secret words spoken by the Solar Logos (of Calvary), etc.

Arcanum number 7 is the chariot of war which the Monad has formed in order to manifest in this world, with power to work in this sphere of life. It is the Monad realised, manifesting through his 7 bodies. From another perspective 7 is struggles, battles, difficulties; but he is always victorious despite the battles.

The Father who is in Secret, or the Divine Monad is immortal, omniscient, but without SeIf-Realisation. He is unable to rule the physical, does not have sovereignty over the Elements. It seems incredible that we, such miserable worms, “Have to make the Father powerful” it seems blasphemous ; but “He” has to Self- Realise.

A Realised Monad is powerful, having power over the fire, the air, water and earth.

This is why in the Egyptian Book of the Dead, the devotee says to Horus: “I strengthen your legs and your arms”. In turn the devotee begs that He should strengthen his Three Brains (intellectual, emotional and motor) because Horns needs the devotee to have three strong brains.

In Egyptian Theogony the Father (Father, Son and Holy Spirit) is Osiris or Ra; and Ra is the Logos with its thr ee aspects. When the Monad is spoken of, it is Osiris who is being referred to; it is He who has to Self- Realise, and in turn unfold into Father, Mother and Son. The Son unfolds into the Essence, which is that which swallows us, leaving the Self-Realised Monad.

                ESSENCE ----> SON -----> MOTHER ------> FATHER

The Monad of each one of us has need of us, and we need the Monad.

When speaking with my Monad, he said to me: “I am SeIf-Realising you what I am doing is for you”.

To put it another way, what are we living for? There is an objective the Monad wants to Self- Realise, and for this reason we are here.

---

CHAPTER 8, ARCANUM NUMBER 8, JUSTICE

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD

In the waters of life of this Arcanum the Serpent is shown biting its own tail, forming the sign of the Cosmic Mother, the Infinite (0, zero).

One finds a woman kneeling upon a tumulus with 3 steps which represents the Arcanum A.Z.F. (waters plus fire equals consciousness).

In her left hand the woman holds the Sword of Power pointing upwards, and with her other hand balances the scales, indicating that a balance must exist between the mind, heart and sex. Ra appears in the upper part of the card, (this is the other symbol for Ra apart from the wings).

ESOTERIC MEANING OF THE ARCANUM

Arcanum number 8 is Judgement. The 8 is the number of Job; tests and sufferings. The esoteric sense of this is represented by a sword.

The number 8 is the number of the Infinite. The vital forces of the Fire of Phlegethon and the Water of Acheron circulate, intertwining in the Ninth Sphere in the heart of the Earth in the form of an eight. The sign of the Infinite is also formed within the spinal column.
The sign of the Infinite means to work in the Ninth Sphere, and this indicates the sex.

Arcanum number 8 is a woman with a sword in her hand before the Balance of Cosmic Justice. Really only she can present the Sword to the Magician. Without woman no Magician is able to receive the Sword. There is Eve-Venus the instinctive woman, Venus-Eve the woman of the home. There is Venus-Urania, the woman initiated in the

Great Mysteries. And finally we affirm the existence of Urania-Venus, the Woman Adept, the woman who is the fully realised woman.

The woman of Arcanum number 8 of the Tarot has the Balance in one hand and the Sword in the other. It is necessary to balance the forces, it is urgent and necessary to sanctify ourselves absolutely and practice the Arcanum A.Z.F; the forces of man and woman are balanced in love and in wisdom.

The miraculous ascent of the seminal energy to the brain is made possible due to a certain pair of nerve filaments which, in the form of an eight, extend to the left and right of the vertebral column.

In Chinese philosophy this pair of filaments is known by the classic names of “Yin” and “Yang”, being the “Tao” the Path of the Middle Way, the Medullar Channel, the secret way by which the Serpent ascends.

Obviously the first of these two channels is of a Lunar nature, whilst the second is ostensibly of a Solar type.

When the Lunar and Solar atoms make contact with the triveni near the coccyx, the Igneous Serpent of our Magical Powers awakens.

The Serpent which forms the figure of a circle, in that Gnostic trance of devouring its own tail, is an extraordinary synthesis of that marvellous message of Lord Quetzalcoatl.
In the vertical position it illustrates the Maya or Nahuatl idea of the Divine Viper devouring the Soul and Spirit of man, or finally the sexual flames consuming the animal ego, annihi lating it, reducing it to ashe s.

The Serpent is unquestionably the esoteric symbol of wisdom and occult knowledge. The Serpent has been related with the God of Wisdom since ancient times.

The Serpent is the sacred symbol of Thoth, and of all the other Holy Gods such as Hermes, Serapis, Jesus, Quetzalcoatl, Buddha, Tlaloc, Dante, Zoroaster, Bochica etc., etc., etc.

Any Adept of the Universal White Fraternity may correctly be represented by the “Great Serpent”; that which occupies such a prominent position amongst the symbols of the Gods which appear upon the black stones of the buildings of Babylon.

AEsculapius, Pluto, Esmun, Kneph, are all, according to Dupuis, deities with the attributes of the serpent. All are healers, givers of spiritual and physical health and of illumination.

The Brahmins obtained their cosmogony, science and cultural arts from the famous “Naga-Maya” who were later called “Danavas”. The “Naga” and the Brahmin used the sacred symbol of the Plumed Serpent, an in disputably Mexican and Mayan emblem. The

Upanishads contain a trea tise on the Science of Serpents, or, that which is the same, the Science of occult knowledge.

The “Nagas” (Serpents) of esoteric Buddhism are Real Men, perfect, Self- Realised, by virtue of their occult knowledge and protectorship of the law of Buddha by means of which they correctly interpret his metaphysi cal doctrine.

The Great Kabir Jesus of Nazareth would never have advised his disci pies that they should be wise like the Serpent if it had been a symbol of evil. We would do well to remember the Ophites, the Gnostic Egyptian sages of the “Fraternity of the Serpent”. In their ceremonies they would never have made a live snake an object of adoration, being the emblem of Wisdom, Divine Sophia, if that reptile had been associated with the powers of evil.

The Sacred Serpent or Saviour Logos sleeps coiled within the depths of the Ark, mystically lying in wait; awaiting the instant of being awak ened. Kundalini, the Igneous Serpent of our Magical Powers, coiled within the magnetic centre of the coccyx (the base of the spinal column) shines like a bolt of lightning.

They who study Nahuatl or Hindu esoteric physiology stress the transcendental concept of a marvellous magnetic centre located at the base of the vertebral column halfway between the anal orifice and the sexual organs.

In the centre of the “Muladhara Chakra” there is a yellow square which is invisible to the physical eyes but perceptible by means of clairvoyance or the sixth sense. According to the Hindu, this square represents the earth element.

It has been said that within that yellow square there is a “Yoni” or “Uterus”, and that within the middle of this one finds a “Lingam” or erotic “Phallus” around which is found coiled the Serpent; the mysterious psychic energy called Kundalini.

The esoteric structure of this magnetic centre, together with its unusual location between the sexual organs and the anus, provide a solid irrefu table basis to the Tantric schools of India and Tibet.

It is, unquestionably, only by means of the Sahaja Maithuna or Sexual Magic that the Serpent can be awakened.

The crown formed of an Asp, the Thermuthis, belongs to Isis, she is our particular and individual Divine Mother Kundalini, because each one of us has our own.

The Serpent as the feminine Deity within us is the wife of the Holy Spirit; our Virgin Mother weeping at the foot of the Sexual Cross, her heart pierced by 7 daggers.

The Serpent of the Great Mysteries is indubitably the feminine aspect of the Logos, God the Mother, the wife of Shiva. She is Isis, Adeonia, Tonantzin, Rhea, Mary, or better said,

Ram-IO. She is Cibeles, Opis, Dero, Flora, Paula, IO, Akka, the Great Mother in Sanskrit. She is the Goddess of the Lha, Lares or spirits from here below, the anguished mother of Huitzilopochtli, Aka or the Turkish White Goddess, the Chalcidean Minerva of the Initiatic Mysteries, the Aka-Boizub of the Lunar Temple of Chichen-Itza (Yucatan)
etc, etc.

---

CHAPTER 9, ARCANUM NUMBER 9, THE HERMIT

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD

In this Arcanum we find in the waters of life a rising Moon. In the middle section, an aged Hermit in the act of going forward, holding in his left hand the lamp which lights the path. It is the lamp of Hermes, Wisdom. The Staff of the Patriarchs which is in his right hand, supports him. This represents the spinal colunm with its Seven Churches.

The wise and prudent Hermit is wrapped in the Protective Mantle of Apollonius which symbolises Prudence. Behind him one sees the Palm of Victory.

In the upper part is a Sun which illuminates with three rays, indicating the Three Primary Forces. It descends to unite with the Moon. The Moon rises and the Sun descends, which indicates that we need to transform the Moon into Sun by means of transmutation; to convert the lunar bodies into Solar bodies by means of the Arcanum A.Z.F.

Arcanum number 9 clearly indicates the 9 circles of the Atomic Infernos of Nature and the 9 spheres of the 9 Heavens. This Arcanum also indicates the 9 planets represented in the 9 spheres of the planet Earth.

The Initiate has to descend to the 9 submerged spheres in order to later attain the 9 Heavens which correspond to each planet.

ESOTERIC SIGNIFICANCE OF THE ARCANUM

Arcanum number 9 is the Hermit, Solitude. This Arcanum in its more elevated form is the Ninth Sphere, “Sex”.

In the ancient Temples the descent to the Ninth Sphere was the greatest test of the supreme dignity of the Hierophant. Hermes, Buddha, Jesus Christ, Zoroaster, Dante, and many other great Initiates had to pass through the Great Test; descend to the Ninth Sphere to wo rk with the Fire and the Water, origin of worlds, beasts, men and Gods.
Every true White Initiation begins there.

In the Ninth Sphere or ninth stratum of the Earth, in the centre of the Earth, in the very heart of the Earth, the resplendent sign of the Infinite is found. This sign has the form of an eight. The sign of the Infinite is the Holy Eight. The Heart, Brain and Sex of the Genie of the Earth is represented in this sign. The secret name of the Genie is Changam.

The Zohar clearly tells us that in the depth of the Abyss lives Adam Protoplastos, the differentiating principle of Souls. We have to pit our selves against that principle in a fight to the death. The battle is terrible; Brain against Sex, Sex against Brain and that which is most terrible and most painful; that of Heart against Heart.

Obviously all the forces in the human being revolve upon the base of the Holy Eight. He who wants to enter the City of Nine Doors mentioned in the Bhagavad-Gita must resolve to descend to the Fiery Forge of Vulcan.

In the human organism the Ninth Sphere is sex, he who wants to Self-Realise must descend to the Ninth Sphere to work with the Water and the Fire to reach the Second Birth.

In the Ninth Sphere the Fiery Forge of Vulcan (sex) is found. It is there that Mars descends to re-temper his flaming sword and conquer the heart of Venus (the Venustic Initiation). Hercules descends to clean the stables of Augeas (the lower animal depths)
and Perseus, to cut off the head of Medusa (the psychological “I”, or earthly Adam) with his flaming sword. It is that head covered with serpents that the esoteric student has to de liver to Minerva, the Goddess of Wisdom.

The foetus remains “nine” months in the maternal womb; and “nine” ages are necessary in the womb of Rhea, Tonantzin, Cibeles, in other words, Mother Nature, in order for a Planetary Humanity to be born. So too, it is obvious that we have to descend to the “Ninth Sphere” in order to gestate and achieve that Second Birth.

Jesus said to Nicodemus: “It is necessary that you be born again in order to be able to enter the Kingdom of Heaven...” (John 3). This means to create the Solar Bodies; no-one can enter the Kingdom dressed in lunar rags. The Solar Bodies have to be created, and this is only achieved by transmuting the Creative Energy. In Egyptian theogony those Solar Bodies are represented by the Egyptian Sahu. No-one has the right to sit at the table

of the Angels if he is not dressed in the Solar Bodies. We have to create the To Soma Heliakon, the Body of Gold of the Solar Man.

It is written: “Narrow is the way which leads to the light”. He who wants to follow the path must: “Deny himself, take up his Cross and follow me.” (The three factors for the Revolution of Consciousness; to Die, to be Born, and Sacrifice).

He who wants to Self- Realise must be prepared to renounce all: wealth, honours, peace, prestige; must give his own blood.

One must have a Centre of Gravity, a Permanent Centre of Conscious ness. We are no more than machines controlled by our “I’s” (the ego is plural). We are in a disadvantageous position which means we need super-efforts, and need to kill the “I”.
That “I” is Mephistopheles; is the root of all our suffering and pain; it lives according to its own conditioning. We must reduce it to cosmic dust in order to have awakened consciousness, in order to be able to see the Path.

To “know”, means to See, Hear and Sense the Great Realities.

There is a need to understand what the “Depths of the Abyss” means. When it is said “descend to the Depths of the Abyss”, this is real. Due to the Law of concomitance or relationship, the descent to the Ninth Sphere puts us in accord with the Planetary Organism on which we live. He who is working in the Ninth Sphere has descended to the depths of what he really is. If he who is working disincarnates he will see that he is really living in that Region (the Ninth Sphere is in the centre of the Earth). Of course he who has awakened consciousness will be the one who is aware of this. It is necessary to advise the Neophyte that in the Ninth Sphere exists the “Supreme Pain” about which Dante spoke in the “Divine Comedy”; the condemned whose tears have coagulated in their eyes, and others about whom the Waters have risen to their Creative Organs.

You must know how to understand, you must know to learn how to suffer, to be resigned;
those who do no t, fail. It is a kind of insolence, a paradox, to want to find happiness in the Ninth Sphere. It would be absurd, because the fact is that Intimate Self- Realisation costs, has a price, perhaps life itself.

Was not Hiram Abiff assassinated and sought by “27 Masters”? This added kabalistically is: 2 + 7 = 9.

There is great pam in the Ninth Sphere until one finally reaches the Second Birth.

When Jesus said to Nicodemus that he had to be born again he did not understand. Jesus of course knew the Great Mystery. Will there come a time when one leaves the Ninth Sphere? Yes, when the Second Birth is achieved.

After having created the “To Soma Heliakon” in the “Forge of Cyclops” (sex), I had then to spend a period of time in profound reflection. In the residence of Love, in the Temple

of the “Twice-Born”, I met other Brothers and Sisters who had also been working intensely in the “Fiery Forge of Vulcan” (sex). They were all gloriously radiant amongst the indescribable divine enchantments of Good Friday. We came together to talk of the struggles and hardships; we had been victorious. But all this how ever is only the Beginning of the Beginning, the Foundation of the Foundation; beyond this there is something more, and it is necessary that you be informed.

If one who is Twice-born, or someone who has reached Adepthood, tries to reach the angelic state, he will have to descend once again into the deep well of the universe; to the Ninth Sphere, and, on terminating the Work, to ascend via the Ladder, or Scale of Lucifer in order to thus reach the Angelic state. If he should wish to be an Archangel, a Principality, a Throne, or a Cherubim he mus t do the same; descend in order to then ascend.

It is necessary to understand and differentiate between a Fall and a Descent. He who has once been decapitated, can not be recapitated. On the verge of entering the Absolute, one must descend to the Ninth Sphere. If one reaches the Second Birth, sex is prohibited; sex is no longer used just because one may want to. If, however, one receives the order of the White Fraternity; the Sacred Order, or that of the Father who is in Secret, and one is ordered to descend the well of the Abyss, one must obey. This is not pleasure, but pain, sacrifice.

By the Luciferic Ladder one must descend, and one must suffer. We need to become Masters of both the Superior and Inferior forces. The Father who is in Secret commands that which must be done; only upon receiving the order does one descend.

Only he who falls loses his Initiatic grades, not he who has descended. Orders are received upon conclusion of the Work. One now no longer makes use of sex capriciously.
It is the Fathe r who is Lord of this Act; and it is the Father from whom the Order must come. Sex does not belong to oneself, but rather to the Father.

The Law of Leviathan is that of the Mason who has already passed all of the works or Esoteric Grades. Because he has already been decapitated he can not be recapitated. He can neither be harmed from above nor from below; he lives in keeping with the Law, the Great Law. This is the higher wisdom of Esoteric Masonry.

Firstly one does one’s capricious will; later, one must do the Will of the Father. When one no longer has “Ego”, evil disappears, and one knows only how to do the Will of the Father. He is our true Being, is the Ancient of Days, is beyond Atman. When he commands his orders must be car ried out.

One is liberated from the Ninth Sphere when one becomes a Paramarthasattya (an inhabitant of the Absolute). Then one will be sub merged in Abstract Joy. Before going there however, there will be a humiliation; one needs to descend again, otherwise one violates the Law of Leviathan, the Seal of Solomon.

We also find the mysteries of the Ninth Sphere in the Apocalypse of the Holy Bible:

“And I heard the number of them which were sealed: and there were sealed an hundred and forty and four thousand of all the tribes of the children of Israel.” (Apocalypse 7- 4).

By adding the numbers kabalistically we will obtain the number Nine, 1 + 4 + 4 = 9, which is the Ninth Sphere, sex. Only they who have attained absolute Chastity will be saved.

“And I looked, and lo, a Lamb stood on the Mount Sion, and with him an hundred forty and four thousand, having their Father’s name written in their foreheads.” (Apocalypse 14; 1-5).

The Mount of Sion is the Superior Worlds, the numerals are a symbolic quantity which kabalistically break down as follows: 1 + 4 + 4 = 9. Nine is the Ninth Sphere, sex. Only with the Great Arcanum can we be saved and receive the Name of the Father on the brow. Sion is the people, the spiritual people of God. This people comprises all those who practice Sexual Magic, (People of Chastity).

Referring to the New Jerusalem, it is said: “And he measured the wall thereof, an hundred and forty and four cubits, according to the measure of a man, that is, of the angel.” (Apocalypse 21.17) 144 = 1 + 4 + 4 = 9, sex. The 9 is the measure of a man, that is, of the angel. We remain nine months in the maternal womb. Only in the Ninth Sphere can the Son of Man be born. There has never been an angel who was not born in the Ninth Sphere. He who wishes to cut off the head of Medusa (the “I”) must descend to the Ninth Sphere.

Hewhowishes to incarnate the Christ must descend to the Ninth Sphere. He who wishes to dissolve the “I” must descend to the Ninth Sphere. The Ninth Sphere is the Sanctum Regnum of Divine Omnipotence of the Third Logos. In the Ninth Sphere we find the Fiery Forge of Vulcan.

Every novice who works in the Great Work must support himself upon his staff, give light with his own lamp, and wrap himself in his sacred mantle. Every novice must be prudent. If you wish to incarnate the Christ, be like the lemon. Flee from lust and alcohol.
Kill the innermost roots of desire.

Esoteric students abound who mistakenly affirm that there are numer ous paths which lead to God. However, the Divine Great Master Jesus said: “Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto light, and few there be that find it” (Matthew 7.14).

If the esoteric student patiently scrutinises all which comprises the four Gospels, he will be able to prove for himself that Jesus never said that there were many paths.

The adorable Saviour of the World only spoke of one narrow door, and of one Path, narrow and difficult. And this door is sex! And this path is sex! There is no other path to God. Never in all of Eternity has there been any Prophet who has known of any door other than sex.

Some esoteric students who are mistaken, confused, and misguided object to these teachings and affirm that Pythagoras, Zoroaster, Jesus and other Initiates were celibate, and supposedly never had wives.

In all the Temples of the Mysteries there were Sacred Vestals. Materialists, the disrespectful, they who are bad- intentioned have arbitrarily sought to label them “sacred prostitutes”. These Vestals were, however, really Initiate Virgins; esoteric Virgins, although their bodies may no longer have been physiologically virgin.

The Initiates of the Temple, Pythagoras, Zoroaster, Jesus Christ, in fact all those ancient Initiates, without exception, really practised the Arcanum A.Z.F. with the Vestals of the Temple. Only within the Fiery Forge of Vulcan could those Great Initiates re-temper their arms and conquer the Heart of Venus.

---

CHAPTER 10, ARCANUM NUMBER 10, RETRIBUTION

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD

Two Serpents are found in the waters of life: the positive, Solar Serpent which cured the Israelites in the desert; and the negative, lunar Serpent, the Tempting Serpent of Eden, that of the lunar bodies, the bodies of sin. In the middle section is the Wheel of Fortune, or the Wheel of Samsara; the wheel of births and deaths. On the right side arises Hermanubis, evolving; to the left descends Typhoon Baphomet in involution.

At the end of 108 lives, the wheel has made a complete turn. Whilst it rises we observe evolution through the mineral, vegetable, animal and human kingdoms; on falling, it descends via the same route.

The Wheel of Samsara revolves 3,000 times; after this, the Essence, having passed through many purifications and sufferings returns to the Absolute, but without Self-Realisation.

In the upper part of the card, the Sphinx, in equilibrium above the Wheel, represents Mother Nature. The Sphinx is the Elemental Intercessor of the Blessed Mother Goddess of the World. In it we will find represented the five elements:

WATER          the face of man.
AIR            the wings of the eagle.
EARTH          the feet of the ox.
FIRE           the claws of the lion.
ETHER          the staff.

ESOTERIC MEANING OF THE ARCANUM

In Arcanum number 10 we find the Wheel of Destiny, the cosmogenic wheel of Ezekiel.
Within this wheel we find the battle of the opposites, Hermanubis on the right, Typhon on the left. This is the wheel of ages, it is the Wheel of Fortune, of Reincarnation and of Karma; the terrible Wheel of Retribution - above the Wheel is the mystery of the Sphinx.

In the Wheel of Antithesis the two Serpents are in mutual combat. Within this Wheel is enclosed the whole secret of the Tree of Knowledge. The four rivers of Paradise flow from a single source. One of these flows through the dense forest of the sun, watering the Philosophical Earth of the gold of light. The other, tenebrous and murky, circulates through the kingdom of the abyss. Light and Darkness; White Magic and Black, are in mutual combat. Eros and Anteros, Cain and Abel live within us in intense struggle, until, discovering the mystery of the Sphinx, we take up the Flaming Sword. We then liberate ourselves from the wheel of ages.

Kabalistically Arcanum number 10 is called the Kingdom or Vital Cen tre, it is called the Formative Root of all the Laws of Nature and the Cosmos.

To form means to conceive intellectually and to later draw or construct. For this reason the 10 is the Formative Principle of all things.

The circle with a point in the centre represents the mysteries of the Lingam-Yoni. The Circle is the Absolute, the Eternal Feminine Principle. It is the Yoni from which all universes are born. The point is the Lingam, the Eternal Masculine Principle. The circle with a point is the Macrocosmos. It is through the mysteries of the Lingam-Yoni that uni verses can be created.

The circle is receptive; the point, projective. If the point is elongated, prolonged, it becomes a line, divides the circle in two. With the point in movement we then have the Lingam- Yoni, the two sexes, masculine and feminine.

Removing the line from within the circle we then have the number 10 and also the mantram of the Divine Mother.

The whole universe is a product of sexual energy; without the power of creative energy the universe could not be formed. Without creative sexual energy there is no universe; for this reason the 10 is the Formative Principle of all Nature.

The circle with the point in the centre can also be expressed as follows:

The number 10 teaches us many things. Bearing in mind the circle which is the symbol of the Divine Mother, we can also say that the following symbols are in essence the same.

It is said that number 10 is the base, the Kingdom, and that the person who obeys the mandates of this Arcanum sees the return of all things. If the student knows how to obey he will see the return of all things, will be elevated to illumination and will be able to see the ebb and flow of all things because he is an Illuminate. The Kabalah says that we see things in accordance with the extent to which we begin to obey the “10”.

In this number “10” are the Principles:

CREATION
CONSERVATION
RENEWAL

Here is the Word in its triple aspect.

The point within the circle which in movement becomes a line, can take the following forms:

We have already seen that the 10 comes from the abovementioned symbol, as also the “IO”, which is the mantram of the Divine Mother, giving rise also to the 10 emanations of Prakriti or that is, the 10 Sephiroth of the Kabalah.

The 10 Sephiroth are:

1. KETHER:               the Father, the Logos.
2. CHOCHMAH              the Son, Triune.
3. BINAH:                the Holy Spirit, the Sepi-tirothic Crown.

This is the first triangle.

After the Sephirothic Crown comes:

4. CHESED:               Atman, the Itimus, our Divine Being
5. GEBURAH:              the Feminine Spiritual Soul, the Buddhi.

This is the superlative consciousness of the Being, is the principle of Jus tice, the Law.
When conscience is spoken of, it is Buddhi, the Elohim, who says: “Fight for me in the name of TE-TRA-GRAM-MA-TON”.

6. TIPHERETH:          Manas, the Human Soul.

This is the second triangle.

In the third triangle we have:

7. NETZACH:            the Solar Mind, the Christ Mind. the True Solar Astral Body. the
                       Cubical Stone, sex.
8. HOD:                the True Solar Astral Body
9. JESOD:              the Cubical Stone
10. MALCHUTH:          the physical body.

The 10 Sephiroth are within us, they underlie all organic and inorganic matter. Every human being has them, however it is necessary to incarnate them. The Sephiroth once Self- Realised shine within Atman like precious gems. The Sephiroth form regions where Angels, Cherubim, Powers etc., live.

The Sephiroth have their points of relationship with the physical body:

SEPHIROTHIC LOCATION WITHIN THE PHYSICAL BODY

KETHER:                the Crow, upper part of the head
CHOCHMAH:              right side of the brain
BINAH:                 left side of the brain
CHESED:                the right arm
GEBURAH:               the left arm.
TIPHERETH:             in the heart.
NETZACH:               in the right leg.
HOD:                   in the left leg.
JESOD:                 in the sexual organs.
MALCHUTH:              in the feet.

These are the points of contact of the Sephiroth with the physical body. The Sephiroth are atomic; they are not atoms of carbon, oxygen, nitro gen, they are atoms of a Spiritual nature which belong to occult esoteric and spiritual chemistry.

Sephiroth are masculine, and there exist Sephirah, which are feminine. Deep space, the magnetic fields etc., constitute the neutral zone. This one will not find in books, it must be discovered for oneself. I speak to you from the direct mystical point of view.

---

CHAPTER 11, ARCANUM NUMBER 11, PERSUASION

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD

In the waters of life, the Cubical Stone; within the stone, the wading bird and upon it, the dove of the Holy Spirit.

In the middle section a woman closes the jaws of a furious lion, indicat ing that this is superior to violence. Upon her head is the crown, and from her forehead rises the Serpent, indicating Mastery.

The lion is the Fire element; it also represents Gold. In ancient times the chariots of the kings were drawn by lions, and in esoteric symbolism the chariot of war drawn by lions symbolises the Solar Bodies.

ESOTERIC MEANING OF THE ARCANUM.

In the Kabbalah, card number 11 is known as Persuasion. The hieroglyph of this Arcanum is a beautiful woman who tranquilly, and with olympian serenity closes the jaws of a furious lion with her very own hands.

The thrones of the Divine Kings were adorned with lions of solid Gold.

Gold signifies the Sacred Fire of Kundalini. This reminds us of Horus the Gold.

We need to transmute the lead of the personality into the Gold of the Spirit. This work is only possible in the Laboratory of the Alchemist. When the fledgling Alchemist is crowned, he is transformed into a God of Fire. He then opens with his own hand s the terrible jaws of the furious lion. The potable Gold of Alchemy is the Sacred Fire of the

Holy Spirit. The fusion of the Cross-Man in the Triangle-Spirit (Arcanum No. 12) would be impossible without potable Gold.

Number eleven breaks down kabalistically as follows: 1 + 1 = 2 => 1 = Masculine; 2 = Feminine. 1 Man + 1 Woman = 2 Man - Woman, the “Fire”.

The number 11 consists of two units which Henry Khunrath translates in these two words: Coagula Solve. We need to accumulate Sacred Fire, and then learn to project it.

The key is in the connection of the membrum virile with the genitalia murielis, the quietude of the membrum virile and the genitalia murielis — with an occasional gentle movement — to transmute the animal instincts into will, sexual passion into love, lustful thoughts into comprehension; and vocalising the secret mantra.

Man is a unit, woman another; this is the number 11 of the Tarot. Only with woman, working in the Great Work, can we incarnate the Child of Gold, Horus, the Verb, the Great Word. In this manner then, the number 11 is the most multiplicable number.

---

CHAPTER 12, ARCANUM NUMBER 12, THE APOSTOLATE

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD

In the waters of life the Pentacle of Solomon, a variant on the six-pointed star. The three upper points represent the Three Traitors of Hiram Abiff (the Internal Chr ist), Judas, Pilate and Caiaphas (desire, mind and ill- will).

In the middle are 2 columns each with 9 rungs - this is the Ninth Sphere (sex). We should remember that there are 9 Heavens (the white colunm) and 9 infernal regions (the black column). We have to descend a rung in order to ascend one.

Between the 2 columns there is a man hanging by one foot with his hands tied together.
With his feet he forms a cross, and with his arms, the in verted triangle.

This figure represents the fact that sex dominates reason; it is necessary to invert the symbol.

ESOTERIC MEANING OF THE ARCANUM.

Arcanum number 12 represents the 12 signs of the Zodiac, the 12 Apos tles, the 12 Tribes of Israel, 12 hours of cooking of the Alchemists, the 12 faculties, Hydrogen SI-12.

Arcanum number 12 of the Tarot is the Apostolate: the figure of a man hanging forms a triangle with the apex facing downwards and his feet form a cross above the triangle. All of the Work has as its objective the acquisition of Soul, that is, to achieve the ligament of the Cross with the Triangle. This is the Great Work.

The twelfth card of the Tarot is Sexual Alchemy; the Cross of man must unite with the Triangle of the Spirit by means of Sexual Fire.

In the Chinese tradition, 10 trunks (Shikan) and 12 branches are spoken of; that is to say, the 10 sephiroth and the 12 faculties of the human being. It is necessary to know that the 7 chakras and the 5 senses are the twelve faculties.

Unquestionably the spinal colunm has 7 magnetic centres; these are the 7 chakras or the 7 Churches of the Apocalypse of Saint John:

1. EPHESUS             Base of the spinal column      4 petals.
2. SMYRNA              Level of the prostate          6 petals.
3. PERGAMOS            Level of the solar plexus      10 petals
4. THYATIRA            In the heart                   12 petals
5. SARDIS              Creative Larynx                16 petals
6. PHILADELPHIA        Between the Eyebrows           2 petals
7. LAODICEA            In the Pineal                  1000 petals

These are the 7 chakras and with these plus the 5 senses, one becomes an investigator of the superior worlds - these are the 12 faculties of each human creature.

The universe came from the Chinese “Huel-Tum”; Chaos. The 10 trunks and the 12 branches also came from Chaos, which in Alchemy is the “Ens Seminis” in which is contained the “Ens Virtutis”, the Materia Prima of the Great Work. This is the “Entity of Being” of Paracelsus. This Entity becomes the Philosophical Stone or Lapis
Philosophorum so sought by the medieval alchemists.

The whole Misterium Magnum is found enclosed in that Summa Materia (these are the Latin terms for the Arcanum A.Z.F.). The Alchemist must extract from within this Menstruum Universalis (chaos) all the Potable Gold or Sacred Fire; that which must rise through the spinal medulla opening the 7 Churches.

Once we have extracted the Potable Gold we are able to unite the Cross with the Triangle; that is to say, the Cross-Man must join with our Immortal Triad, we must incarnate the “Spirit”. It is only in this way that we become a Human Being; before achieving this we are only intellectual animals.

The Great Work or “Magnum Opus” is represented by Arcanum number 12 of the Tarot (Magnum Opus is used in a strictly esoteric way). The arms of the figure form the Triangle, his feet the Cross. His head is the ligament of the Triangle with the Cross by means of Potable Gold.

According to the Chinese, the God Fu-Ji (the Adam-Christ) was born at midnight on day “4” of the tenth Moon, and at precisely 12 years. The Virgin Hoa-Se, passing along the bank of the river (the seminal fluid) formed the Christ within her womb on placing her foot upon the foot print of the Great Man.

All of these dates are very interesting. Day 4 is the 4 Elements. In the 10 is the secret of the Lingam- Yoni. It represents the 10 Sephiroth, and the circle with the line dividing it in half, the mystery of sex.

The 12 is the 12 faculties needed to incarnate the Christ in the Heart.

There is a profound study of Arcanum number 12 in the twelfth key of Basil Valentine.

Just as the Lion transforms the Serpent into its own flesh when it de vours it, so too, the power of Devi Kundalini, the Sacred Fire transmuted, eliminates its defects, its errors.
What is important is the Magna Obra. The key you already know; the Maithuna. The Alchemists must work for 12 hours to obtain the ferment of the gold. Here is the number 12, whoever possesses Fermented Gold can have the joy to really “be”.

The Essence, or fraction of incarnated Soul is trapped in the pluralised “I” or Ego which is within the animal mental body and the lunar body of desire. It manifests by means of the physical body. We differ from the animals only because of the intellect; because animals also have mind, but not intellect.

The authentic man needs to eliminate the “ego” and fabricate the Solar Bodies with the transmutation of H-SI-12 (12 laws). The fabrication of the Solar Bodies has an intimate relationship with music and its 7 notes. Hydrogen SI-12 is produced in the human organism, being initiated from the process of digestion.

DO:            when the food is in the mouth.
RE:            when it reaches the throat.
MI:            when it reaches the level of the lungs.
FA:            when it reaches the stomach, spleen and liver.
SOL:           when it reaches the solar plexus.
LA:            when it reaches the colon and pancreas.
SI:            when Hydrogen SI-12 is produced.

(After the note SI comes DO, which corresponds to another musical scale and a higher octave.) SI can be elevated to a higher musical octave by restraining the sexual impulse and ejaculation. This is how H-SI-12 passes to a second octave, giving rise to the Solar Astral Body. Through a third shock the hydrogen will pass to a third octave which will give rise to the Solar Mental Body. A fourth octave gives birth to the Body of Conscious Will. All this work is with the Maithuna. Once in possession of these 4 vehicles, our Divine Being will enter through the pineal gland and we will then attain the Second Birth and become True Men. Whilst we have the lunar animal bodies we are intellectual

animals and are only a chrysalis which could be transformed into a Celestial Butterfly this is attained with super-efforts.

The nutriment of the physical body is in H-48 (48 laws). If we conserve this hydrogen it can be transformed into H-24 (24 laws) which serves as nourishment for the Solar Astral Body. This hydrogen (24) is wasted with excessive work, futile efforts, desires, emotions, rages.

H-12 is the nourishment of the Solar Mental Body; it is wasted with in tellectual efforts.
If we save it, H-6 will be obtained to nourish the Body of Conscious Will.

Whoever has the superior existential bodies of the Being has the right to incarnate his Divine Triad: Atman - Buddhi - Manas.

Then it is said: “Anew Son of Man has been born; a Master, a Mahatma”. All which is written in the Apocalypse is for the final days. We must inform humanity that the final days have alr eady arrived.

The whole of poor humanity is divided into twelve tribes. All of human ity develops and unfolds within the Zodiacal Matrix. The Zodiac is a womb within which humanity is gestated. The twelve tribes can only receive the sign of God on their foreheads by practising the Arcanum A.Z.F. “And I heard the number of them which were sealed...
(Apocalypse 7.4). “And of the tribe of Juda were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Reuben were sealed twelve thousand...”

Of each one of the twelve zodiacal tribes there are only twelve thousand sealed. We have here Arcanum number 12 of the Tarot. We have here the ligament of the Cross with the Triangle. We have here Sexual Magic. We have here the realised work, the living man who touches the Earth with no more than his thought.

From each of the twelve tribes of Israel only twelve thousand sealed will be saved from the great cataclysm (this quantity is symbolic). Only they who have achieved the ligament of the Cross-Man with the Triangle- Spirit will be saved.

We find the following dealing with the new Jerusalem: “And had a great wall and high and had twelve gates, (the twelve zodiacal doors in the uni verse and in man) and at the gates twelve angels, (zodiacal angels) and names written thereon, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel”, (the twelve types of humanity in accordance with the influ ence of the twelve zodiacal signs), (Apocalypse 21.12).

“As above, so below”. Man has twelve faculties governed by twelve atomic angels.

Twelve zodiacal signs exist in starry space and in man. It is necessary to transmute the sexual energy and make it pass through the twelve zodiacal doors of the human organism.
The Prophet continued speaking of the twelve zodiacal doors in this way:

“On the east three gates; on the north three gates; on the south three gates; and on the west three gates.” (Apocalypse 21.13).

“And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.” (Apocalypse 21.14).

The twelve zodiacal signs and the twelve energetic spheres which mutually penetrate and inter penetrate without confusion. Solar humanity is realised totally within the twelve planes.

Arcanum number 12 is the foundation of the Celestial Jerusalem. The twelfth Arcanum is the symbol of Sexual Alchemy. This is the sacrifice, and the realised Work.

One must work with gold and silver; one must work with the Moon and the Sun to raise the Celestial Jerusalem within each person. The gold and the silver, the Sun and the Moon, are the sexual forces of man and woman.

In Arcanum 12 is enclosed all the science and philosophy of the Great Work. In the Christonic semen is hidden the living and philosophical secret Fire. The mysticism of all the old Initiates is that of Sexual Alchemy.

The philosophy of Sexual Alchemy has its beginning in the School of the Essenes, in the School of Alexandria, in the teachings of Pythagoras, in the Mysteries of Egypt, Troy, Rome, Carthage, Eleusis, in the wisdom of the Aztec, the Maya etc.

The science and systems of Sexual Alchemy must be studied in the books of Paracelsus, Nicholas Flammel, Raymond Lully. We also find the pro cedures hidden behind the veil of the symbols contained in many of the inscrutable forms of the old hieroglyphs of many ancient temples, in the Greek and Egyptian myths etc.

You who seek Initiation! You who read so much! You who live fluttering from school to school, always seeking, always desiring, always yearning, always longing. Tell me sincerely... Have you already awakened Kundalini? Have you already opened the 7 Churches of your spinal medulla? Have you incarnated the Lamb?

Answer me dear reader. Be sincere with yourself. Place your hand upon your heart and answer me with sincerity... Have you realised yourself? Are you certain that with your theories you will become a God? What have you achieved? What have you attained with all your theories?

He who wants to Self- Realise needs a Revolution of Consciousness; to Die, to be Born and to Sacrifice. A Revolution of Consciousness when we decapitate the “I”. A Revolution of Consciousness when we make the Solar Bodies. A Revolution of
Consciousness when we incarnate the Being. Up until then we do not have real existence.

---

CHAPTER 13, ARCANUM NUMBER 13, IMMORTALITY

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD.

In this Arcanum the heads of wheat represent rebirth, as do the flowers; the flowers, the beginning of life; the wheat, the end.

A Hierarch of the Law cuts some sheaves of wheat which have grain of varying sizes, both large and small. These are what are called “Boby-Caldenos” and represent the values, the capital which each human being carries in his three brains (intellectual, motor, emotional).

He who carries small grain lives only a short while; dying within a few days, months or in the first few years of life. One lives by thirds and one dies by thirds; he who squanders his intellectual capital descends into madness, schizophrenia, etc. He who abuses his motor or movement centre ends up being paralysed, deformed, etc. He who misuses his emotional centre suffers from ailments of the heart.

This Arcanum represents both the internal and the physical. It is the Arcanum of Judas Iscariot which represents the death of the “Ego”.

The scythe is the funeral symbol of the Angels of Death.

ESOTERIC SIGNIFICANCE OF THE ARCANUM.

Death is really the return to the womb. Life and death are two phenom ena of a single thing.

Death is a subtraction of fractions; when the mathematical calculation ends, all that remains are the values of Consciousness. The values of the personality are subtracted. For the personality of the defunct there is no tomorrow, it has a beginning and an end.
Trapped within the “Ego” are the values of the Consciousness. These, seen clairvoyantly resemble a legion of phantoms. This is what continues.

The return of the values is a mechanism of nature. The Soul really does not return because man has not incarnated his Soul. Only the values return.

When the hour of death arrives the Angel of Death attends the death bed of the dying one, having the duty to cut the cord of existence. In the precise instant of exhaling the last breath, the Angel of Death removes the individual from his physical body, and with his scythe cuts the Sil ver Cord. (This is a mysterious silvery thread which connects the inter nal bodies with the physical body). This magnetic cord can extend or reduce to infinity. It is due to this cord that we can reincorporate in the physical body in the moment of awakening after sleep.

The dying usually sees the Angel of Death. They, when working, dress in funeral garb and take on a spectral, skeletal appearance, grasping the scythe with which they cut the Silver Cord. They assume this gloomy appearance only whilst working, apart from this they adopt very beautiful forms, at times of children, at times of ladies or of venerable elders. The Angels of Death are never evil or perverse; they always work in accordance with the Great Law. Each one has his hour to be born, and his exact moment to die.

The Angels of Death are very wise. They develop and operate under the Ray of Saturn.
They know not only all that which is related to the common place and normal death of the physical body; these ministers of death are, as well, profoundly wise in all that which is related with the Death of the pluralised “I”.

Proserpina, the Queen of the Infernos, is also Hecate, the Blessed God dess Mother Death, under whose direction the Angels of Death work. Mother Space transformed into Mother Death dearly loves her children, and for this reason she takes them.

The Blessed Goddess Mother Death has the power to punish us when we violate the Law and authority to take our life. She is, indubitably, only one magnificent facet of our Mystic Dyad; a splendid form of our own Being. Without her consent no Angel of Death would dare to break the thread of life, the Silver Cord, the Antakarana.

Three human forms go to the grave:

A: the physical body.
B: the vital body or Lingam Sarira.
C: the personality.

The physical body in a gradual process disintegrates within the grave. The vital body floats before the sepulchre, its phosphorescent spectre at times being visible to persons who are very psychic. It disintegrates slowly as the physical body disintegrates.

The personality is energetic, is formed during the first seven years of childhood, and is strengthened with time and with experiences. The personality is a child of its time; born in its time. There is no tomorrow for the personality of the defunct. After the death of the physical body, the personality is also within the grave, but it comes out when someone brings flowers, when some mourner visits. It moves about the cemetery and returns to its grave. Within the cemetery, it slowly disintegrates.

That which continues, that which does not go to the grave, is the “Ego”, the self, the myself, the “I”; which is a particular sum of “I” devils which personify our psychological defects.

That which continues after death is not then, very beautiful. That which is not destroyed along with the physical body is none other than a multitude of devils, of psychic aggregates, of defects. The only decent thing that exists within all those cavernicolous entities which constitute the ego is the Essence, the Psyche, the Buddhata.

Normally, these psychic aggregates function within the astral and mental worlds. Rare are those Essences who are able to free themselves for a time from these subjective elements in order to enjoy a holiday in the causal world before returning to this vale of tears. This is however, possible, with the dissolution of the ego.

The egos normally submerge within the mineral realm in the infernal worlds, or return immediately or shortly thereafter to a new organism.

The ego continues in the seed of our descendents. We return incessantly in order to always repeat the same dramas, the same tragedies.

We must stress the fact that not all the aggregates achieve a human return. In reality many “I-devils” are lost because they submerge within the mineral realm, or continue re-incorporating in animal organisms, or resolutely cling, adhere to determined places.

---

CHAPTER 14, ARCANUM NUMBER 14, TEMPERANCE

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD

In the waters of life we find three flowers, and in the central flower, a Serpent rising.
These three flowers represent Sat: the Intimus, Atman; Chit: Buddhi, the Spiritual Soul;
Ananda: Manas, the Human Soul.

The three flowers also represent:

The Sacred Fire.
The Materia Prima.
The Mixture.

In the middle, an Angel shows us by means of his vestments, the Triad and the Quaternary (the 4 bodies of sin). At his forehead shines a Sun with 14 rays - 7 visible and 7 invisible. The visible rays represent the 7 planets, and the invisible, the 7 chakras.

The Angel has two vessels or urns with which he mixes the two elixirs. One vessel is of Gold and contains the Red Elixir; the other, of Silver, containing the White Elixir.

Together, they produce the Elixir of Long Life. Many Masters have attained immortality:
Babaji, Sanat Kumara, Paracelsus etc.

ESOTERIC SIGNIFICANCE OF THE ARCANUM

In Arcanum number 14 there is an Angel with a Sun at his forehead and a vessel in each hand, in the act of mixing the Red Elixir with the White Elixir. The Elixir of Long Life results from the mixture of these two. It is, indubitably, this which the medieval

Alchemists so yearned for. The White Elixir is woman and the Red Elixir is man, without which it is impossible to produce the Elixir of Long Life. That of the woman emanates from the Moon and that of the man emanates from the Sun; this is indicated by the colours.

When the Septenary Man unites sexually with the Septenary Woman an addition is made whose result is Arcanum number 14 of the Tarot. It is valuable to mention in passing that man has 7 principles, the same as woman. It is the sexual centre which is the most important and the fastest in the human being.

The process of creating a new being is realised within the law of musical octaves. The 7 notes of the musical scale form the basis of all creation. If we transmute the creative energy we initiate a new octave in the Etheric World. The result of this is a vehicle with which we are able to consciously penetrate all the regions of the Kingdom.

A third octave permits us to engender the True Astral, the Christ Astral. Upon reaching these levels the old astral phantasm is reduced to an empty shell which, little by little, disintegrates.

A fourth octave permits us to engender the Christ Mind. This vehicle gives us true wisdom and unity of thought. Only he who engenders the Christ Mind has the right to say: “I have a mental body”. The current mental body is but a ghost of a facade. This becomes really a hollow shell when the true mind is born. It disintegrates, is reduced to cosmic dust.

The fifth musical octave engenders the True Causal body. On attaining these levels we incarnate the Soul; we then have real existence. Before this moment we do not have real existence.

---

CHAPTER 15, ARCANUM NUMBER 15, PASSION

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD

In the waters of life the representation of Geburah, (the Law). The Typhon Baphomet appears in the middle, holding the Staff of Command in his left hand, and in his right, a rising Serpent. The right hand is masculine and the left is feminine. The breasts indicate that the figure is androgynous. Wisdom is covered by the apron, and from this same apron appears the tail.

The face is deformed as a result of error and sin. The Baphomet has been represented as being of brass which humanity has blackened because of degeneration. We must whiten the brass, the Devil, who is the psycho logical trainer and guardian of the doors of the Sanctuary. This is so that only the chosen may get into, they who have been able to overcome all of the tests set by the Devil.

ESOTERIC SIGNIFICANCE OF THE ARCANUM

Arcanum number 15 of the Tarot represents the male goat of Mendez, Lucifer, Typhoon Baphomet, the Devil.

“The Alchemist must steal the Fire from the Devil.”

When we work with Arcanum A.Z.F. we steal the Fire from the Devil. In this way we become Gods, in this way the five-pointed star shines.

The horns end in 6 points. Arcanum number 6 is sex, indicating that in sex is the liberation by means of chastity or the enslavement of man by passion. There is a

difference from Arcanum number 1; the right hand is el evated, and the left points towards the Earth.

The mystery of the Baphomet is Sexual Alchemy based in comprehension and
transmutation of the creative energies.

The Baphomet of the Templars must be read in reverse: TEM-O-H-P-AB; being an anagram of the Latin words: Templi Ommun Hominun Pacis Abbas. With this is
intended: the Father of the Temple, Universal Peace to Men.

Arcanum number 15 comes after Arcanum 13 which is the death of the “I”; and after Arcanum number 14 which is Temperance or Moderation, the chastity which is a result of the death of the ego. Arcanum number 15 is then, the Divine Androgyne which becomes resplendent, is the whitened brass.

We know that the inner divine Logoi is beyond the body, the emotions and the mind.
This, unquestionably, is that which is ineffable, is real. He projects his reflection, his particular shadow within us, here and now. Obviously this shadow, this logoic reflection is the psychological trainer, Lucifer the tempter. Each of us has our particular Lucifer.

In the Egypt of the Pharaohs, the midday sun, the Sacred Absolute Sun was always symbolised by Osiris whilst his shadow, his reflection, his Lucifer, was allegorised by Typhoon.

In the Sacred Temples of the old Egypt of the Pharaohs, when the Neo phyte was at the point of being subjected to the tests of Initiation, a Mas ter drew near to him and quietly murmured in his ear this mysterious phrase: “Remember that Osiris is a Black God”.

This is clearly the specific colour of darkness and of the cumaean shad ows; of the Devil who was always offered black roses. It is also the colour of primitive Chaos where all the elements and seeds of life are totally mixed and muddled; the symbol of the earth element and of night; of the total death of all psychological elements which in their conjunct constitute the “Myself”.

We need with the utmost and unpostponable urgency to whiten the Devil, and this is only possible by fighting against ourselves; by dissolving that whole complex of psychic aggregates which form the “I”, the myself, the self. Only by dying within ourselves can we whiten the brass and contemplate the Midnight Sun (the Father). This means to overcome temptations and to eliminate each and every one of the inhuman ele ments which we carry within (anger, avarice, lust, envy, pride, laziness, gluttony etc., etc., etc.).

In the psychological gymnasium of human existence a trainer is always needed. The Divine Daemon mentioned so many times by Socrates, the very shadow of our individual Spirit, is the most extraordinary psyc ho logical trainer which each one of us carries within. He places temptation in our path with the purpose of training us, educating us.

Only in this way is it possible for the precious gems of virtue to appear within our psyche.

I now ask myself and I ask you: where is the evil of Lucifer? It is the results which speak;
if there is no temptation, there is no virtue. The stronger the temptations, the greater the virtues. The important thing is not to fall into temptation, and for this reason we must pray to the Father saying: “Lead us not into temptation”.

Only through struggle, contrast, temptation and rigorous esoteric discipline can the flowers of virtue form in us.

Lucifer as Ayo, educator, mentor is certainly something rare, unusual, extraordinary.
There exists in the Luciferic temptation an inimitable didactic, a portentous teaching, an attraction which is amazing, an unmistakable incentive, a hidden instigation with secret divine purpose, se duction, fascination... Lucifer Prometheus is one with the Platonic Logos, the Minister of the Demiurge Creator and resplendent Lord of the Seven Mansions of Hades (the Inferno), Sabbath and the manifest world. To him is entrusted the Sword and the Scale of Cosmic Justice. He is then, indubitably, the rule of weight, measure and number - Horus, Brahma, Ahura-Mazda, etc. - always ineffable.

Lucifer (Luci = light; Fer = fire) is the Guardian of the Door and has the keys of the Lumisial so that none other than the anointed may enter; they who possess the secret of Hermes.

They who rashly curse Lucifer, speak ill of the Cosmic Reflection of the Logos;
anathematise the Living God manifested in matter and renounce the always
incomprehensible wisdom revealed in the opposites of light and darkness; semblance, similarity: sun and shadow, day and night. Law of opposites...

The Devil, the reflection of our inner Logoi, was the most exalted being before we descended into animal generation. “Whiten the brass and burn your books” the Masters of Hermetic art tell us time and aga in.

Whoever whitens the Devil, returning him to his resplendent and primordial state;
whoever dies in himself here and now, liberates the en chained Prometheus; and he rewards most highly, because he is a colossus with power over the Heavens, over the Earth and over the Infernos. Lucifer-Prometheus totally integrated with all the parts of our Being, makes us something different, distinct; an exotic creature, an Archangel, a terribly divine Power.

---

CHAPTER 16, ARCANUM NUMBER 16, FRAGILITY

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD

In the waters of life the Staff of Power, the Staff of Command and the Flail (whip), which represents Fragility. To either side of these symbols, the two Serpents, the positive, and the negative.

From the upper part descends the Ray of Cosmic Justice, destroying the tower which the kabalists call the Tower of Babel. Two persons are plunged into the depths of the Abyss;
one to the left, and the other to the right. They fall with the arms, legs and head pointing downwards, mak ing the sign of the inverted Flaming Star. This symbolises the fall of the Bodhisattwas; a fall due to sex, due to spilling the Vessel of Hermes.

One must differentiate between a fall and a descent. The Initiate de scends to the Ninth Sphere during the work in the forge in order to de stroy his defects in the lower regions and to then ascend to the Heavens. A Heaven is won following the work in each Inferno.
The Initiate falls when he spills the semen.

ESOTERIC SIGNIFICANCE OF THE ARCANUM

Arcanum number 16 is that of the fulminated tower, the Tower of Babel.

Many are the Initiates who allow themselves to fall. There are many ful minated towers.
Every Initiate who spills the Vessel of Hermes inevitably falls. The legend of the fallen Angels has been repeated and will be repeated eternally.

Many fallen Gods now live in the world. They are now disguised in the bodies of men.

It is necessary to awaken consciousness so as not to fall into the abyss of perdition. There now exist many leaders of esoteric groups with the con sciousness soundly asleep, “the blind leading the blind; all will fall to the abyss.” That is the Law. The human being lives completely asleep. It is necessary to awaken consciousness so as to not walk blindly. The blind can fall into the abyss. Arcanum 16 is very dangerous.

Those students who do esoteric exercises without working in Arcanum A.Z.F. are similar to the man who built his house upon the sand; their structure will topple into the abyss.

We must build upon the Living Stone. That Stone is sex. He who develops chakras whilst having internal bod ies which are lunar will fall to the abyss, his Temple will be a fuhninated tower. He who engenders his Christic bodies with the Arcanum A.Z.F. and works to develop his chakras becomes a living Christ.

---

CHAPTER 17, ARCANUM NUMBER 17, HOPE

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD

In the waters of life are two triangles; the positive, and the negative. In the middle section is a woman who is watering the earth with the two elixirs (masculine and fe minine).
Upon her head is a lotus flower indicating her developed chakras.

In the upper part shines the eight-rayed star of Venus indicating that after the Initiations of Fire come those of Light.

ESOTERIC SIGNIFICANCE OF THE ARCANUM

The hieroglyph of Arcanum number 17 is the radiant star and eternal youth. In this Arcanum a naked woman appears who sprinkles the vital fluid of Universal Life which comes from two vessels; one of gold and one of silver.

If we carefully study the esoteric content of this Arcanum we discover perfect Alchemy.

We need to work with the gold and the silver, with the Sun and the Moon in order to incarnate the eight-pointed star, the Morn ing Star.

Really, the eight-pointed star is Venus. Whoever obtains the Venustic Initiation has the joy of incarnating the Dragon of Wisdom (the Internal Christ).

One must work with Fire and Water to receive the Venustic Initiation.

The star crucified upon the cross is the Christ of the Abraxas, the Son of Man, the Verb incarnated.

There is documentation about Venus the Morning Star in the Apocalypse of Saint John:
“And he that overcometh... I will give him the Morning Star”. (Apocalypse 2.26-28).

“I Jesus have sent mine angel to testify unto you these things in the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, and the bright and morning star.” (Apocalypse 22.16).

Christ is the Dawn Star. When one receives the Venustic Initiation Christ enters the Soul.
When we decapitate and dissolve the “I”, the myself, we then receive the Venustic Initiation. He who receives this incarnates his Star.

The Star is the Son of Man, the truth. No-one can seek the truth. The truth cannot be known by the “I”. No-one can search for that which he does not know. Satan, the “I”, the ego which we carry within, is unable to know the truth. The truth cannot be studied, read, or recognised by the mind. The truth is absolutely different from all that can be read, studied or recognised by the mind. The truth advenes when we have decapi tated and dissolved the “I”.

The various truths of people are none other than projections of the mind. Decapitate your own “I”, dissolve it with rigorous purifications. In this manner you achieve the Venustic Initiation. Then you will incarnate the truth. The Verb will be made flesh in you. You will incarnate the Son of Man and receive the Morning Star.

Everyone who wants to incarnate the Star must work with the Essence of Life contained in the two sacred vessels which the naked woman of Arcanum 17 has in her hands.

The star which guides us internally is the Father Star. The important thing for us is to incarnate that Father Star. Here we have the mystery of Arcanum 17. The Essence contained in the vessels of Gold and Silver, when wisely combined and transmuted, enables us to achieve the incarnation of the Star. The Star crucified upon the Cross is the Christ.

---

CHAPTER 18, ARCANUM NUMBER 18, TWILIGHT

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD

In the waters of life a scorpion within an inverted triangle, signifying that with the spilling of the Vessel of Hermes we, like a scorpion, kill the Divine Mother.

In the middle section are two pyramids, one black and one white, symbolising the positive and the negative. Two dogs or wolves, one black and the other white, howl at the Moon. The white, symbolising friendship, is positive whilst the black is negative and symbolises the psycho logical “I”. They represent the terrible struggle between the tenebrous forces. The Moon in essence represents sex. We have to work with the Moon to convert it into Sun. The dog also represents the sexual instinct; and it is due to this that the dog takes us to the very doors of the Absolute.

ESOTERIC SIGNIFICANCE OF THE ARCANUM

It is necessary to study, analyse, and reflect profoundly on the esoteric content of this Arcanum.

Arcanum number 18 is light and shadow, white magic and black magic. This is represented by the black dog and the white dog; the black pyra mid and the white.

By adding kabalistically Arcanum 18 we find that 1 + 8 = 9, the Ninth Sphere, sex. We have already said that within our planetary organism there are 9 interior strata; these are the 9 vaults of occult Masonry. The ninth corresponds to the nucleus of the planetary organism, and there is the sepulchre of Hiram Abiff or Chiram Osiris who is the intimate Christ of each one, of each person who comes to this world.

It is erroneous to consider or believe that the Christ is only Jeshua Ben Pandira; which is the name of Jesus the Christ who is, undeniably, the living incarnation of the Word, the Logos.

All of us need to resuscitate that intimate Christ and to achieve this it is obvious that we must descend to the Ninth Sphere, sex. Due to this it is said that Hiram Abiff is in the ninth circle, in the ninth vault.

We are all sons of sex, and for this reason in the Divine Comedy we see the condemned with water up to their generative organs and weeping with tears which congeal in their eyes. This is because it is a vale of tears and afflictions. That the waters reach their generative organs is due to the fact that they are spermatic waters; we are all born and die weeping. If we add 9 + 9 it equals 18. The “9” is contained twice in Arcanum 18.
Between the two 9’s there is a balance; one 9 is the positive aspect and the other nine is the negative aspect. The 18 is, however, essentially nega tive, disastrous; is the secret enemies of the Arcanum of Twilight. In the work in the Ninth Sphere one has to struggle a lot because one has to learn to sublimate the sexual energy; this is the key or solution to all empires.

In Arcanum 18 the Ninth Sphere is repeated twice. We already know that the number 1 is positive, and that the number 2 is negative. In the same manner if we repeat the Ninth Sphere once, and once again, we will have the two aspects of sex; positive and negative.
Now you will understand why Arcanum 18 is light and darkness, white magic and black magic. In Arcanum 18 we find the secret enemies of Initiation.

Now we are going to study the symbolism of the dog. The dog participates in magic. It is a generous animal which in ancient times was al ways consecrated to the God Mercury.
The Mercurial dog is strictly symbolic as it clearly allegorises the sexual power. The high honour which the old Hierophants of ancient Egypt awarded to the dog is quite clear.

The “Sexual Fire”, the dog, the erotic instinct, is that extraordinary and marvellous agent which can transform us radically.

The dog Cerberus is in the infernal worlds, and we must extricate him, steal him from the Infernos; this means to liberate the sexual force.

To take Cerberus from the dwelling of Pluto is urgent. Cerberus, prodigy of terror, with his barking, his three enormous, blunt heads and collar entwined with serpents. He lives happily there, barking at the dead and filling them with terror.

The dog, and the swan who flies above the waters of life signify the same as the dove, which is the same as the Egyptian ibis; the force of the Holy Spirit, the sexual force. In all, it is the Vessel of Hermes, which must be raised well on high.

In the archaic doctrine, in occult wisdom, the guiding dog who leads the knight to the Sanctum Regnum is spoken of. There are times when the knight forgets the dog and

believes that he can continue on the path without him; and it is not so. Sooner or later when he feels stagnant, there remains no other remedy but to take hold of the dog.

When we are at a standstill, it is he who shows us the path. We must take him from the abyss. One must not forget that Three-headed Cerberus pulls at the lead of his master, taking him securely by the path of escape which leads to Final Liberation.

Hercules took him from the abyss to serve as his guide; and we do the same when we attain chastity. Then, working in the Forge of Cyclops, practising sexual magic, transmuting our creative energies, we advance upon the Path of the Razor’s Edge to liberation.

Woe to the knight who abandons his dog! He will lose his way and fall into the abyss of perdition.

Unfortunately the intellectual animal mistakenly called man has not at tained chastity;
that is to say he has not taken Cerberus from the dominion of the Infernos.

This will now explain to you the reason why the defunct suffer in the Plutonian abysses when they hear Cerberus barking; the hound with three hungry jaws.

We must never forget that Cerberus, the guard-dog of the Infernos, was affectionate to those who entered, and mercilessly devoured those who tried to leave.

The lost obviously suffer the insatiable thirst of lust in terrifying Tartarus. InArcanum 18 we have to unleash bloody battles against the tenebrous. “Heaven is taken by storm”.
“The valiant have taken it.” In the internal worlds the tenebrous of Arcanum 18 violently attack the student.

This path is filled with dangers both within and without. Many are they who begin, few are they who arrive. The majority stray onto the black path. In Arcanum 18 there are very subtle dangers which the student ignores.

Number 9 is positive and negative at the same time; this is the mystery of Arcanum 18. In this terrible Arcanum we find all the potions and witchcraft of Thessaly. The Grimoires are full of tenebrous formulae very fitting to Arcanum 18. We must warn students that the most dangerous potion which the tenebrous use to take the student from the Path of the Razor’s Ed ge is that of the intellect. To invite us to ejaculate the seminal fluid; or to lead us astray by making us consider schools, theories, sects, etc., etc.

We must not forget that they who are misled adore the great beast and say: “There is nothing greater than the beast. Who could be superior to the beast?” (Apocalypse 13. 1-17).

“Here is wisdom. Let him that hath understanding count the number of the beast: for it is the number of a man; and his number is six hundred threescore and six.” (Apocalypse 13. 18).

The mark of the beast is the two horns on the forehead. Millions and millions of human beings already have the mark of the beast upon their brow and on their hands. Almost all of the human population of this vale of tears already have the mark of the beast upon the forehead and upon the hands. All those souls were lost, and from 1950 have been entering the abyss. Human evolution failed completely.

The number of the great beast is “666”. This is the number of man because that number reduces kabalistically thus: 6 + 6 + 6 = 18. Adding the total together we have the following: 1 + 8 = 9, that is, sex. Nine is man because man is the son of sex.

In total, contained within 666 are the Arcana 18 and 9. Arcanum 18 is the abyss, darkness, sexual temptations against which the Initiate must fight.

Arcanum 9 is the Ninth Sphere, Initiation.

The Gods judged the great whore whose number is 666.

The sentence of the Gods was: To the abyss! To the abyss! To the abyss!

---

CHAPTER 19, ARCANUM NUMBER 19, INSPIRATION

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD

In the waters of life are three flowers which represent the three primary forces.

In the middle is a couple holding hands, thus forming the Tao key. In the upper part above their heads is a radiant Sun with 7 rays which reminds us of the seven grades of power of Fire.

This Arcanum teaches us that through transmutation we attain final lib eration.

ESOTERIC SIGNIFICANCE OF THE ARCANUM

This Arcanum, number 19, is the Arcanum of the Alliance. It represents the “Creator Fire”, the Philosophical Stone.

In order to realise the work which is the Great Work, we have to work with the Philosophical Stone.

The ancients worshipped the Sun in the symbolic form of a black stone. That is the Heliogabalus Stone! That is the Stone which we must make the foundation of the Temple! That stone is sex, represented by the Philosophical Stone, the Heliogabalus Stone.

Without that stone we cannot attain the Elixir of Long Life. The two columns of the Temple, Jakin and Boaz, are the man and the woman, united in order to work with the Philosophical Stone. He who finds the Philosophical Stone becomes a God.

They who build upon the living Stone will incarnate the Verb. They who build upon the sands will fail, and their structures will tumble into the abyss. Those sands are theories, dead religions, etc., etc.

Arcanum number 19 is the Arcanum of the “Work of the Sun”. The man and the woman holding hands, and the sun shining upon them indicates to us that this Arcanum is related with the mystery of Fire.

The sexual aspect of this Arcanum we find in the kabalistic addition: 1 + 9 = 10. This is a number which is profoundly sexual: we have here the circle and the line, the mysteries of the Lingam- Yoni. It is only possible to attain Self- Realisation by means of sexua l transmutation. This is the sacred alliance between man and woman for the Magnum Opus.

In meditating upon saints of medieval times, I was able to discover that although these saints were celibate, they had in other lives worked in the Ninth Sphere; having developed the Sacred Fire with the Sahaja Maithuna.

If we analyse the life of Saint Phillip, we find that feeling love for the divine, he fell to the ground, and upon raising himself, felt with his hand, a protrusion in the thoracic region. He examined it and discovered that he had formed a protrusion upon the heart, and felt that the Sacred Fire of the Holy Spirit consumed him. After his death it was discovered that the artery between the heart and lungs was very thickened. He had however, lived to old age and had been able to say at which hour he was going to disincarnate. There is no doubt that he had the Sacred Fire due to the practice of the Maithuna in previous lives.

Catherine de Borbon was an extraordinary mystic, as was demonstrated in her life. When she died she was buried without a coffin, but on pass ing her tomb many persons noticed that a strong fragrance was emitted, and many sick persons were cured. After several months the priests removed her body in order to give her a good burial. It was undecayed, and gave off a fragrance. It was placed on exhibition. The cadaver had a nasal haemorrhage, perspired, and emitted perfume. It was seated in a chair in a chapel in Italy, the eyes opened, and it remained undecayed. The Tao says that one of the signs that someone has attained the Inti mate Self- Realisation of the Being is that of the body being conserved without decay, and emitting perfume.

When the Akash, the causa causorum of ether, and the basic principle of the tattwas is concentrated in the sexual organs, it is then the psychic basis of the blood, and pure Akash becomes the nutriment of these mystics. They carry this substance to the blood and can live without eating. There are Initiates who can live without clothes in the snow without eating. To attain this, extraordinary concentration is needed.

Catherine of Siena said that she felt in Christ, being nourished by his blood. The relationship of the Akash with the blood, and of the blood with the Akash is tremendous.

The Mystics concentrated in the blood of Christ and attracted only pure Akash. For this, tremendous concentration is needed and the energies have to have been transformed.

In the age of gallantry, in the Renaissance, in those times of wigs, crinolines, purple cassocks, beautiful dances, fine carriages, man knew how to appreciate woman and made sacrifices for her. Man was capable of making any sacrifice for a lady; knew how to appreciate her, did not shirk even at giving his own life. There were undoubtedly abuses of this, but man in this period knew how to see in woman all his ideals.

In the twentieth century man has forgotten the sexual mysteries; the male has lost the sense of moral valour; humanity is in decadence.

The animic essence is separated by all the entities of the ego. When how ever, one is dissolving it, one is forming the Seminal Pearl. When the ego is destroyed, the Golden Embryo is formed and the immortal principles then enter the man. But this is a sexual question. In other times much was int uitively understood about that which is the creative energy.

The human being today is nothing more than a legion of devils, filled with intimate contradictions.

The only value we have is the Essence, which is broken up amongst the ‘I’

---

CHAPTER 20, ARCANUM NUMBER 20, RESURRECTION

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD

In the waters of life a colunm, symbol of building. The base of the colunm is the cubical stone. Of the two columns, the white and the black, only the white has remained, being a symbol of purification.

In the middle section is a mummy from which escapes a sparrowhawk with a human head. It flies toward the worlds of the Spirit, and repre sents the Soul. It is indubitable, that upon awakening consciousness we become sparrowhawks with huma n heads being able to fly freely through star-filled space. On the head of the sparrowhawk and the mummy is a symbol which is representative of the pineal gland; a sign of illumination.
The Soul of any Egyptian Hierophant has four bodies:

1. The Mummy
2. The Ka (astral body)
3. The Ba (mental body)
4. The Ku (causal body)

Woe to those who continue living after attaining the second birth! They become in fact, Hanasmussen (miscarriages of the Divine Mother Kundalini) with a double centre of gravity.

ESOTERIC SIGNIFICANCE OF THE ARCANUM.

Arcanum number 20 is the Resurrection. For there to be Resurrection, there needs to have previously been death; without it there is no Resur rection.

How beautiful it is to die from instant to instant...! It is only with death that the new comes!

We need to die from moment to moment if we truly want to individual ise ourselves. The pluralised “I” excludes all individuality. In no way is it possible to have individuality where multiple entities (I’s) exist which argue amongst themselves and give rise to various psychological com mitments within us.

When Set (the ego) dies totally only the Being remains in us; that which gives us authentic individuality.

When Set is disintegrated totally then the Consciousness, the Soul, is freed, awakens completely. Then there is interior illumination. Truly, the Resurrection of the Soul is only possible through cosmic Initia tion. Human beings are dead and are only able to revive by means of Initiation. Let us remember the words of Jesus, the Great Kabir:

“...and let the dead bury their dead” (Matthew 8. 22).

“God is not the God of the dead, but of the living” (Matthew 22. 23-32).

Just as there exist three basic types of energy, masculine, feminine and neutral, so also there exist three types of Resurrection:

1. Spiritual Resurrection.
2. Resurrection with the Body of Liberation.
3. Resurrection with the Physical Body.

No-one may pass through the second and third types of Resurrection without having passed through Spiritual Resurrection.

1. Spiritual Resurrection.

Is achieved with Initiation. We must resuscitate spiritually first in the Fire and then with the Light. That is to say, first we raise the 7 Serpents of Fire and then the 7 Serpents of Light; attaining the Venustic Initiation and spiritual Resurrection.

2. Resurrection with the Body of Liberation.

This is realised in the Superior Worlds. This body is formed with the best atoms of the physical body. It is a body of flesh which does not come from Adam; a body of indescribable beauty. With this body of Paradise, Adepts may enter the physical world and work in it making themselves visible and tangible at will.

3. Resurrection of the Physical Body.

On the third day, the Initiate in astral body comes before his Holy Sepulchre accompanied by the Divine Hierarchies. The Initiate invokes his body and with the assistance of the Divine Hierarchies it rises, entering hyperspace. This is how the escape from the tomb is achieved. In the suprasensible worlds of hyperspace, the holy wome n treat the body of the Initiate with medicaments and aromatic unguents. Obeying supreme orders, the physical body then enters the astral body through the top of the head. This is how a Master comes to retain possession of his physical body. This is the Gift of Cupid.
After the Resurrection the Master is eternal; will not die. With this Immortal body they can appear and disappear instantaneously, make themselves visible in the physical world at will.

Jesus the Christ is a Resurrected Master whose physical body was in the Holy Sepulchre for Three Days. After the Resurrection Jesus appeared in the path of the disciples of Enimaus and dined with them, and later, before doubting Thomas who only believed when he placed his finger in the wounds in the Holy Body of the Great Master.

Hermes, Cagliostro, Paracelsus, Nicholas Flammel, Quetzalcoatl, Saint Germain, Babaji etc., conserve their physical bodies from thousands or millions of years ago without death being able to affect them. They are Resurrected Masters.

Only with the Arcanum A.Z.F. is it possible to create the Elixir of Long Life. The Resurrection is impossible without the Elixir of Long Life.

---

CHAPTER 21, ARCANUM NUMBER 21, TRANSMUTATION

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD

In the upper part we find the Black Moon and the White Moon; the antitheses.

In the middle section, a magician with the Staff of the Patriarchs in one hand and the Ansate or Tao Cross in the other hand. He is found standing upon a crocodile which waits with open jaws to devour him.

The crocodile is Set, Satan, the “psychological I”, the myself, always lying in wait to devour the one who allows himself to fall. The magician valiantly grasps the Tao Cross (the Arcanum A.Z.F.) to defend himself.

The magician is covered with a tiger skin. Indubitably, the dog and the tiger have an esoteric association in the same work of the mystic Death. The dog is the Sexual Fire, the erotic instinct which is found at the very root of our seminal system. The tiger is different. This is known by the “Tiger Knights”, those jaguars who fight against the ego, those true felines of revolutionary psychology who have pitted themselves against themselves, against their own psychological de fects.

Really the sagacity and the ferocity of the tiger are necessary in or der to kill the human personality and make the Dragon of Wisdom of 7 Serpents (symbols of the Decapitated)
shine in man.

ESOTERIC SIGNIFICANCE OF THE ARCANUM.

Arcanum number 21 has been confused with Arcanum number 22 which is the Crown of life.

Arcanum number 21 is the “Madman of the Tarot”, or the “Transmutation”. The kabalistic addition gives us 2 + 1 = 3. In this Arcanum 21 the Initiate has to fight against the “3” Traitors of Hiram Abiff: the demon of Desire, the demon of the Mind and the demon of Ill- will.

One is never in more danger of being a demon than when one is closest to being an angel.
Every Initiate who allows himself to fall is really the madman of the Tarot. When the Alchemist spills the Vessel of Hermes, he in fact be comes the madman of the Tarot, “the fool”.

It is necessary to eliminate desire if we want to avoid the danger of falling.

He who wants to annihilate desire must discover its causes. The causes of desire are to be found in the sensations. We live in a world of sensations and we need to understand them.
There are five types:

1: Visual Sensations.
2: Auditory Sensations.
3: Olfactory Sensations.
4: Taste Sensations.
5: Tactile Sensations.

The five special types of sensations are transformed into desire. We must not condemn the sensations, we must not justify them, we must under stand them profoundly.

Only in understanding the sensations do we kill desire. Only by annthilating desire can the mind be liberated, which is normally found trapped within the confines of desire.

Liberating the mind produces the Awakening of Consciousness. If we want to put an end to the causes of desire we need to live in a state of constant vigilance. It is urgent to live in a state of alert perception, alert newness. The “I” is a great book, a book of many volumes. Only by means of the technique of internal meditation can we study that book.

---

CHAPTER 22, ARCANUM NUMBER 22, RETURN

DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD

In the waters of life is the swastika cross symbolising the Muladhara chakra of four petals.

A woman who represents Truth is playing a harp, plucking the sexual lyre of 9 strings in order to find the key note. In the upper part the 4 Gods of death: Mestha, Hapi, Tuamutef, and Qebhsennuf, representing the 4 elements, Earth, Water, Fire and Air; the 4 mysterious animals of sexual Alchemy.

Above the 4 Gods of death we find the Sacred Serpent which illuminates the sphere of Ra which is granted to the Osirian adept; the Son of Light.

ESOTERIC SIGNIFICANCE OF THE ARCANUM.

Arcanum number 22 is the Crown of Life, the return to the light, the incarnation in us of the truth.

Beloved disciples, you need to develop each one of the 22 major Arcana of the Tarot within yourselves. You are Imitatus, that is, one whom others have placed upon the Path of the Razor’s Edge. Strive to achieve the state of Adeptus, he who is a product of his own works; who conquers the Science for himself, the Son of his own labour.

You must achieve the grade of Adeptus, leaving behind the animal state, acquiring consciousness.

Gnosis teaches the three stages through which everyone working in the Fiery Forge of Vulcan must pass.

These are:

1. Purification.
2. Illumination.
3. Perfection.

The curious who enter our Gnostic studies want immediate illumination, development, clairvoyance, the practice of magic, etc; and when they do not attain this they leave immediately.

No one can achieve illumination without first having purified themselves. Only they who have attained Purification, Sanctity, may enter the Cham ber of Illumination. There are also many students who enter our studies for reasons of pure curiosity and want to be sages immediately. Paul of Tarsus says: “Amongst the perfected we speak wisdom.” Only they who reach the third stage are perfected, only amongst them may Divine Wisdom be spoken.

In the old Egypt of the Pharaohs in occult Masonry, these three stages of the path are:

1. Apprentices.
2. Craftsmen.
3. Masters.

The candidates remain in the level of Apprentice for seven years or even longer. It is only when the Hierophants are completely sure of the Purification and Sanctity of the candidate that they can then pass to the second stage.

Really only after seven years of apprenticeship does illumination begin. The Crown of Life is our Resplendent Dragon of Wisdom, the “Internal Christ”.

From Ain Soph, the Internal Atomic Star which has always smiled upon us, emanates the Holy Trinity.

1 (Monad) + 3 (Trinity) = 4 (Tetragrammaton).
Arcanum 22 added kabalistically gives us: 2 + 2 = 4 (Tetragrammaton).

The result is the Holy Four, the mysterious Tetragrammaton, the Iod He-Vau-He; Man, Woman, Fire and Water; Man, Woman, Phallus, Uterus. You will now understand why Arcanum 22 is the Crown of Life. The Apocalypse says: “Fear not those things which thou shalt suffer: behold, the devil shall cast some of you into prison, that ye may be tried; and ye shall have tribulation ten days: be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life.” (Apocalypse 2.10)

The prison is the prison of suffering and the ten days are the tribulations whilst you are submitted to the Wheel of Returns and karma.

He who receives the Crown of Life is freed from the Wheel of returns, recurrence and karma.

The Crown of Life is triune, having three aspects:

1. The Ancient of Days.
2. The Adorable Son.
3. The very wise Holy Spirit.

The Crown of Life is the Man-Sun, the Sun-King so lauded by the emperor Julian. The Crown of Life is our incessant Internal Breath, completely unknown to itself, the particular ray of each man, the Christ. The Crown of Life is Kether, Chochmah and Binah (Father, Son and Holy Spirit). He who is faithful unto death receives the Crown of Life.

In the feast of the Lamb, the faces of all those Saints who have it incarnate shine like suns of love. The immaculate white mantel is stained with the royal blood of the Sacrificial Lamb.

“He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit sayeth unto the Churches; He that overcometh shall not be hurt of the second death.” (Apocalypse 2.11).

He who does not overcome will be divorced from the Beloved and will sink to the abyss.
They who enter the abyss will pass through the second death. The demons of the abyss disintegrate slowly, during many eternities. These are lost souls. He that overcometh will not be hurt by the second death.

When we receive the Crown of Life, in each one of us the Word is mad flesh.

Every Saint who attains the Venustic Initiation receives the Crown of Life. Our most beloved Saviour Jesus Christ attained the Venustic Initiatio n in the Jordan.

“And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father), full of grace and truth.” (John 1.14). “And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not.” (John 1.5).

He is the Saviour because he has brought us the Crown of Life and given his blood for us.

We need to reach the supreme annihilation of the “I” in order to receive the Crown of Life.

We need to revive the Lamb within ourselves. We need the Easter of Resurrection.

                                PART TWO

                                      ***

                       THE INITIATIC PATH
                     IN THE ARCANA OF THE
                      TAROT AND KABALAH

                                      ***

                     INITIATION THROUGH
                          THE ARCANA
                         OF THE TAROT

                                      ***
   “If the Logos came forth from within the Divine unknowable, the Devil gave Him
                           freedom”. (Samael Aun Weor).

---

CHAPTER 23, ARCANUM NUMBER 1

Arcanum number 1 is the Magician of the Kabalah; is obviously the beginning. Anything which is initiated in practical life is Arcanum number 1. It is Unity.

It is not difficult to appreciate tha t every beginning is difficult; one has to work hard, one must sow in order to be able to reap. For this reason in Arcanum number 1 is the Unity of the original Beginning; Origin, it is clear, of all Unity, because everything begins with the number 1.

Unity becomes the origin of Duality, or the Binary: 1 + 1 =2; and finally, in that Unity is the fulfilling synthesis of the Ternary. The Unity, the 1, is the Divine Monad, the First Logos, the Father who is in secret. Each one of us has his own individual Monad.
Madame Blavatsky used to say that there are as many Fathers in heaven as there are men on Earth. The Father, in turn, or of himself unfolds into the Divine Mother. So it is that He and She are Brahma because She becomes the feminine aspect of Him. We see then how Unity is the root of the Binary, given that the latter could not exist without the Unity.

If the Monad had not existed the Divine Mother would not have existed. The Monad is the root of Duality. There are as many Mothers in heaven as there are men upon the Earth. Each one of us has his internal God, or his own particular celestial Father and Mother. In explaining this, it is better understood why Unity is the fulfilling synthesis of the Ternary and how and why it is produced. When Jesus prayed, he prayed to the Father who is in secret, and he left us a prayer which is the “Our Father”. This prayer is completely magical. It takes a couple of hours to pray the “Our Father” well, because each petition which is made to the Father is totally magical. The mistake that people make is to pray it in a mechanical manner, and this has no effect. The prayer must be broken down, analysed; and in order to do this one must relax the body so that not a muscle is tense, and then to concentrate, combining prayer with meditation.

People think that Our Father who is in Heaven is a gentleman who is sitting up there. If we reflect profoundly, the Monad, the Unity, the origin of all other unities or Monads will be discovered. It is clear that the Monad has need of something in life in order to Self-Realise. What is it that the Monad needs? In the light of the Sanskrit we can ascertain that He needs “Vatrasattwa”, the meaning of which is “Diamond Soul”. This is a Soul which has no “I”; which has eliminated all the subjective ele ments of the perceptions. These elements are the “I’s” and the three traitors of Hiram Abiff, or, that which is the same;
Judas the demon of Desire, mistakenly called the Astral body; Pilate the demon of the Mind, which is confused with the Mental body, and Caiaphas, the demon of Ill- will. Why should it be that all this is unknown to the pseudo-esoteric schools?

The subjective elements of perceptions are the aggregates, the different composites of the human being, the different red demons which make up the “I’s”.

The subjective elements of perceptions are defined in psychology as all the psychological processes of the human entity. They are defined as subjective processes of the unconscious, subconscious, preconscious, infraconscious; and all which is metaphysical in nature.

What do modern psychologists understand by “objective”? The physical, the tangible, the material.

Clearly, they are totally mistaken, which is demonstrated in analysing the term “subjective” which means sub-below, that which is below the limits of our perceptions.
And what is it which is below? Is it not the Worlds of the Infernos? Is that which is in the physical, and beneath the physical not subjective? “This is the truly subjective, that which is be neath the limits of our perceptions.”

Psychologists do not know how to use that term correctly.

Objective: is the Light, the resplendent, is something which has truth, clarity, lucidity.

Subjective: is the darkness, the tenebrous. The subjective elements of the perceptions come from: “sight”, “hearing”, “touch”, “smell”, “taste”. They are all perceptions of what we find in the third dimension. For example, we see in a cube only length, width and height, and we do not see the fourth dimension because we are constrained by the ego.
The subjective elements of perceptions are made up of the ego with all its “I’s”

The Unity, the Father divides Himself into the Mother. In her turn, the Mother divides, giving origin to the Son which she carries in her en trails.

Osiris - the Father.
Isis - the Mother.
Horus - the Divine Spirit, the Intimus of every being. The Unity is the realising synthesis of the Ternary.

In the Egyptian Book of the Dead it says that Ra gave to Horns, (the child which the Divine Mother carries in her arms) the regio n of “Buto”. This region is of pure spirit; of Atman-Buddhi-Manas.

Set transformed himself into a wild black boar and struck the “Eye of Horus” and the latter complained to Ra. “I will cure you” Ra said to him, and to console him, he gave him the region of Buto. This is clarified by the following: “The wild black boar must be killed, thus the Eye of Horus is restored; that is to say, the clairvoyance is restored”.

Horus can put an end to the wild black boar, but not alone; rather he must beg the help of the Divine Mother. In eliminating the wild black boar Horns triumphs, and the Essence which was trapped is freed, fus ing with Horns, with the Diamond Soul. It unites with its Father and Mother: they are three flames which come to form one single, realised flame.
The Essence is a division of Horus, we must beg Horus to strengthen our three brains. As

the ego dies Horns is strengthened; and due to this, one must beg that he strengthen those three brains.

When Horus has swallowed the Essence he needs the Solar Bodies; and a germinal atom of each one of these bodies remains.

Solar Physical Body.
Solar Astral Body - complete consciousness.
Solar Mental Body - complete knowledge.
Body of Conscious Will.

Man is man, and the smaller and more microscopic one feels, the better. We, mankind, must feel that we are ants. God is God because the Divin ity is that which has power. We are nothing, we are poor devils; and even the man who is a complete Man is an ant compared with God. A Master said to me: “V. M. Samael Aun Weor, true happiness is having God within. Although one may be in the Absolute or in Nirvana, if one does not have God within one will not be happy; even though they who dwell there have God incarnated”.

Those words had a tremendous impact upon me and I sought the coun sel of the great sage Saturn. I gave various esoteric greetings and he responded to them all, but he said to me: “There is no greater greeting than that of the seal of the heart”.

There was no need to speak, in silence he answered all, saying that if one does not have God within, not even in the Absolute is one happy. With this answer I was satisfied.
These consultations cost, and I paid with the capital of good acts, which is the currency of Dharma.

SYNTHESIS

This Arcanum, the Magician, represents man. It is the masculine principle. The number 1 means that which initiates, that which begins. All of the work is contained within the Tarot. All psychic processes develop there.

The Unity is the realising synthesis of the Ternary.

Whilst we do not know ourselves, we can know nothing of the soul and spirit.

The four conditions which are necessary in order to be a Magician are the following:

To know how to suffer.
To know how to be silent.
To know how to abstain.
To know how to die.

---

CHAPTER 24, ARCANUM NUMBER 2

The 2 is negative. In the temples in ancient times there was a priest and a priestess. In the primordial Masonry there was a Master and a Mistress. Count Cagliostro tried to establish Egyptian Masonry in England. He had, however, many enemies and established two thrones. Giovanni Papini met Count Cagliostro on board a boat. They became friends and Cagliostro told him who he was. He wanted to avert the Second World War, but as no-one took any notice of him, he went once again to Tibet, saying that he would return 60 years later.

Egyptian Masonry was grandiose; in anc ient times, when the sacred hermaphrodites existed, the 1 and the 2 were fused. In the polar epoch of the First Protoplasmic Race, humanity was androgynous. Sexual reproduction then took place in determined periods of the year. One divided into two; that two was the son.

In that epoch when someone was born, a ritual was performed. Human beings could increase or diminish to the size of the atom. When a Master wanted to speak in a gentle manner he would put his feminine principle to the fore. When he wanted to show his firnmess he would put forward his masculine principle. This is how the Elohim are.

The Latin tradition tells of how Aeneas went to the Sanctuary of Apollo (the Aeneid book IV) and spoke with the oracle who told him what awaited him. Aeneas requested to see his dead father, sought entry to the Inferno. The terrible Sibyl, custodian of the woods of Hecate Proserpina (third aspect of the Divine Mother), the woods of Avernus, replied:
“The descent to Avernus is easy, the return to Earth is the difficult thing. Few are they who have achieved it.” She asked him to obtain a bough sacred to Proserpina, the Divine Mother in her infernal aspect, whose leaves and branches were of gold. Aeneas made a sacrifice of some black sheep, then saw “two doves” in flight. In them, the hero recognised the birds of his Divine Mother (a symbol of the Holy Spirit). This message he wisely interpreted. The birds led him to the forest of Proserpina, to the branch which would enable him to enter the Inferno. Aeneas sacrificed four black cows, and the Sibyl led him through Avernus to his dead father.

The masculine and feminine principles conjoin in the Holy and mysterious
Tetragrammaton; an esoteric name which must not be spoken in vain and which has a relationship with the letters of the name of the Eternal in Hebrew.

He Vau He Iod (Hebrew symbols which are read in reverse).
Iod: Eternal masculine principle. He: Eternal feminine principle.
Vau: Masculine phallic principle; the Lingam.
He: Feminine principle; the uterus, the Yoni.

Iod He Vau He reduces to SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS. These four letters have within them, immense priestly power. They must be pronounced like the howling of a cyclone in

the mountains, or imitating the wind. They are spoken softly when one wants to heal one who is ill, or to invoke a Deity. They serve also for meditation. Within these four letters are represented the two principles, masculine and feminine of the Macrocosmos and the microcosmos; the Staff - masculine principle, and the Goblet - feminine principle. In these four letters is the principle of the Eternal which must not be pronounced in vain.

The number “2” is essential. The Mystery Temples never lack “2” altars. One can not enter into the Temple without passing two columns where there are two guardians.

What would there be of the Great Life if the number “2” did not exist? The Matripadma receives the masculine Fohat ray. The Holy Spirit, husband of the Divine Mother fecundates it, and the universe comes into being. What would there be of life without the other principle? Before the dawn of the Mahamanvantara, the Cosmic Day, nothing existed, the Gods lived in that which is nameless, without form, without sound, with out silence, and without hearing to perceive it.

When life dawned, when the Dawn of Creation began, the First Logos called the Third Logos and said: “Go and fecundate your Wife so that existence may come forth”, and he began to work with the Seven Spirits before the throne and the Army of the Voice. And the Masonic rituals were performed, and chaotic matter was made fecund, the Matripadma was fecundated, and the universe came into existence. Each one of the Seven Cosmocrators gave forth from Himself his Two Souls, the feminine Buddhic Soul and the Causal Masculine Soul, which are symbolised by the Constellation of Pisces.

These two Souls, Husband and Wife practised a transcendental Maithuna. She separated the superior waters from the inferior waters so that they were fecundated by the fire, and projected them by means of theVerb. The seeds of the Matripadma proliferated, expanded like a lotus flower and bore fruit, giving birth to a cosmos.

In electricity the eternal positive and eternal negative exists. In India the masculine principle is represented by a bull, and the feminine principle by the sacred white cow which represents the Divine Mother and has her antithesis in the black cow.

We need to christify ourselves. No human being can return to the Father without having been devoured by the Serpent. No-one can be devoured by the Serpent without having worked in the Fiery Forge of Vulcan (sex). The key of Christification is the Arcanum A.Z.F. The Mantram of the Great Arcanum is I.A.O.

I .................Ignis   Fire.
A ............... Aqua     Water.
O .............. Origo     Beginning, Spirit.

To the Fiery Forge of Vulcan they descended; Mars to re-temper his sword and conquer the heart of Venus; Hercules, to clean the stables of Augeas with the Sacred Fire; and Perseus, to cut off the head of the Medusa.

Remember dear disciples that our Divine Mother is Nut, and that her number is “56”.
This number breaks down kabalistically as follows:

5 + 6 = 11, then, 1 + 1 = 2. One is the Father, two; She, Nut, the Divine Mother Kundalini. We have here the marvel of the number “2”.

SYNTHESIS

Woman is the Athanor of sexual Alchemy. Man left Paradise through the Gates of Eden, and Eden is the same “Sex”.

The door of Paradise is sex. Woman is this door.

The “Kundalini” is the sacred Fire of the Holy Spirit, is the Pentecostal Fire, is the igneous “Serpent” of our magical powers.

The Kundalini is enclosed within the Muladhara chakra located in the coccyx.

The secret of awakening the Kundalini is the following: “Introduce the virile member in the woman’s vagina and withdraw it without spilling the semen.” This practice is to be done slowly.

The Arcanum A.Z.F., sexual magic, or Maithuna, may only be practised between husband and wife in lawfully established homes.

The practice of the Arcanum must be realised only once a day. If one practices twice in a day one descends to the Negative, violating the recuperative magnetic pause.

---

CHAPTER 25, ARCANUM NUMBER 3

Everything is number and mathematics in Kabalah. Number is Holy, is infinite; in the universe everything is measure and weight. God is a geometrician for the Gnostics.
Mathematics is sacred; in the Pythagorean School anyone who did not know
mathematics, music, etc was not admitted. Numbers are sacred.

The Sepher Yetzirah, the sacred and very ancient Hebrew book of the Rabbis, describes in a marvellous form all of the splendours of the world, and the extraordinary workings of the Sephiroth in God, and in man, through the 32 Paths of Wisdom. In the mystery of the sexes is hidden the whole science of the Sephiroth. In the Science of Numbers is the se cret key of the Sepher Yetzirah. One may simply think of 32 paths; but in reality the 32 Paths of Wisdom are equal to: “3 + 2 = 5”; equal to the 5 pointed star, to the Pentalpha, that is to say, to Man. This means that the Paths are in Man; within one’s self is everything. A very symbolic language is used, and thus, 32 paths are spoken of. The kabalists say that the Soul, in reality has three aspects:

1: Nephesh - The Animal Soul.
2: Ruach - The Thinking Soul.
3: Neshamah - The Spiritual Soul.

The substractuin of these three aspects of the soul are the Sephiroth; these are atomic.

1. NEPHESH:

One must differentiate between the astral body and the lunar bodies. The latter are active during the night, and after death. These bodies have conventionally been called the astral body, but this is not correct. He who wants to enjoy the luxury of having this body must realise the work of the Maithuna, where H-SI-12 is fabricated. (H = hydrogen; SI = the musical note; 12 = the 12 laws) which vibrate in our organism with the musical scale. If the practice is intensive, it crystallises as the Solar Astral Body.

It is the lot of the Initiate to descend to the worlds of the Infernos for a duration of 40 days and it is his job to recapitulate all of the evil deeds and frightening dramas of past reincarnations. Little by little he leaves those tenebrous regions. Before leaving, the three Souls, Nephesh, Ruach and Neshamah are submitted to tests. How interesting it is to see the animal Soul submitted to the test, the same for the thinking Soul, and the Essence, which is also submitted to the test.

The Bible says: “Nephesh, Nephesh, blood is paid with blood.” Within the Hebraic words Wisdom is hidden.

2. RUACH:

Is the thinking, emotional Soul, which is located within the lunar bodies of desire.

3. NESHAMAH:

That which there is of the Soul located within the previously mentioned principles is submitted to very difficult tests. When the Initiate triumphs he later ascends to the Causal world to meet with Sanat Kumara, who is a Venerable Elder mentioned in very ancient religions. He is one of the Four Thrones about whom the Bible speaks: three have gone;
only one remains. He wields the rod of Aaron, the sceptre of Kings, is ineffable, has a relationship with Sattwa, Rayas and Tamas, the three Gunas in equilibrium. Sanat Kumara gives the Esoteric Initiation of the Solar Astral Body.

SYNTHESIS

Our disciples must learn to travel in the Astral Body in order to visit the White Lodges of the world where they will be able to personally converse with the Christ, and with all the Masters of the White Lodge.

The atoms of laziness are a serious obstacle in the progress towards the Superior Worlds.

The Great Law is the return of life to the Superior Worlds.

Pray and meditate intensely. The Divine Mother teaches her children. One must pray combining meditation with sleep. Then, in a dream vision, illumination arises. The Divine Mother comes to the devotee in order to instruct him in the Great Mysteries.

---

CHAPTER 26, ARCANUM NUMBER 4

Arcanum number 4 is very interesting, it refers to the Cross with four points, the cubical stone which is the basis of the Great Work; that which must be carved.

Speaking about the School of the Fourth Way, we find that Gurdjieff, Ouspensky and Nicoll, have expounded that which they know, but the exposition contains many defects.
For example: Gurdjieff commits the error of confusing the Kundalini with the abominable Kundartiguador organ, and Ouspensky commits the same error. We must not forget that there is that blind Fohatic force which has people hypnotised, but that it has nothing to do with the Kundalini. The Kundartiguador is the lunar fire. The bible speaks of the 44 fires, but one only can speak of two great fires: Kundalini and Kundartiguador.
The first is the Pentecostal Fire, the ray of Vulcan ascending the spinal column; the positive fire which crystallises in worlds and suns. Its antithesis is the Kundartiguador, the negative fire which crystallises in those psychic aggregates, those screaming and troublesome I which we carry within. They are negative crystallisations which have people submerged in the unconscious.

Gurdjieff also commits the error of saying nothing about the lunar bod ies which everyone has, and only says that we must transform the Being and fabricate the Solar Bodies. Ouspensky speaks about the second birth, but his teachings are incomplete. The Solar Bodies are first fabricated in the ninth Sphere, attaining the second birth; but neither Gurdjieff nor Ouspensky give the key.

The School of the Fourth Way is very ancient; comes from archaic lands; is the basis of the great Mysteries. One finds it alive in Gnosticism, in the religions of the Egyptians, Lemurians, Atlanteans, Phoenicians etc.

The path must be travelled by that Fourth Way. In Science, Philosophy, Art and Religion we must walk with balance.

Previously, in the art of the theatre, the three brains of the individual were informed; the motor, emotional and intellectual. Today schools only give information to the intellectual brain; and unhealthy mental states and neurosis are due to this. By balancing the three brains, mental disequilibrium is avoided.

Science is contained within the whole Cosmos; it exists even when the sciences may not exist.

Arcanum 4 of the Tarot is the Holy and Mysterious Tetragrammaton.

The sacred name of the Eternal has 4 letters: Iod, He, Vau, He.

Iod-      Man-         Man
He -      Woman -      Woman
Vau -     Phallus -    Fire
He -      Uterus -     Water

They are the 4 words which lead us to the Ninth Sphere, to sex, to the Forge of Cyclops, to the famous fiery forge of Vulcan, in order to raise the Sacred Serpent of our Magical Powers and carry it to the heart, thus receiving the Sacred Cross of Initiation in the Temple of the Divine Mother. The number 4 also represents the 4 physical elements and the 4 elements of the Alchemy.

Earth -         Salt
Fire -          Sulphur
Water -         Mercury
Air -           Azoth

The old Alchemists said that the Sulphur had to fecundate the Mercury of secret philosophy in order for the salt to regenerate. That is, that the fire must fecundate the water so that man may regenerate, Self-Realise.

We also find in this Arcanum the secret of the sphinx, and we are reminded of the four sacred animals of sexual alchemy.

The Lion:       the claws of the lion - conceal the enigma of the fire.
The Man:        the face of the man - intelligence.
The Eagle:      the air - the wings of the sphinx - spirit.
The Bull:       the earth - the hind legs - tenacity.

These are the representative values of the sphinx; the four elements of Solar Alchemy.
We need the tenacity of the bull and the wings of the spirit.

The sphinx speaks to us of the Great Work which is realised with the four elements. On a certain occasion, I met with the elemental of the sphinx; it is a marvellous elemental. Its feet were heavy with mud; it blessed me, and I said to it: “I now understand why your feet are heavy with mud, because of this Age of Kali Yuga”.

The entrance to the archaic Temples of the past was normally a hole hidden in some mysterious spot in the dense forest. We left Eden via the doorway of sex, and only by that door can we return to Eden. Eden is sex itself, it is the strait, narrow and difficult gate which leads to the light.

In the solitude of those Mysterious Sanctuaries the Neophytes were sub mitted to the 4 initiatic tests. The tests of fire, of air, of water and of earth always defined the different purifications of the neophytes.

The neophytes are submitted to the 4 initiatic tests which are verified in the internal worlds. Man is still not king of nature, but he is called to be so after the order of Meichizedek.

The disciple must be tested in the 4 elements. In order to examine him he is submitted to the test in the 49 regions of thought. These tests are for all men and women. It can assist one to have pure thoughts, but this is not all, meditation is necessary.

All the students of Kabalah must familiarise themselves with all of the elemental creatures:

Air   Sylphs
Water Ondines and Nereids
Fire Salamanders
Earth Gnomes

These elementals are utilised in order to work in the transmutation of lead into Gold upon the central mountain range (spinal column).

In the words Iod-He-Vau-He, we find the mystery of the Tetragrammaton (Holy 4), the four words, the four elements. Deeper still, we find our Being, the most complete Divinity.

From Ain Soph, which is a Super-divine atom within each of us, ema nates the three divine forces; that of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, giving the final synthesis of: 3 + 1 = 4. The Tetragrammaton, (Iod-He-Vau-He); being the Sacred resume of number 4.

SYNTHESIS

The Master is formed of Atman-Buddhi. Atma is the Intimus.

Buddhi is the Divine Soul, that is to say, the Divine consciousness of the Intimus.

When a Logos wants to redeem a world, he emanates from Himself a celestial prototype formed of Atma-Buddhi.

The Logos is the Sephirothic crown, is the individual ray whence the Intimus itself emanates. That ray is Triune, is the Most Holy Trinity within us.

So then, every Logos is Triune. The Father is Kether, the Ancient of Days. The Son is the Cosmic Christ in us. The Holy Spirit is the Divine Mother in us.

The Mother carries a lantern in her hand. That lantern is the Intimus, which burns within our heart.

---

CHAPTER 27, ARCANUM NUMBER 5

Arcanum 5 of the Tarot is the Blazing Pentagram, the Flaming Star. The Pentagram represents the Microcosmos man. From the esoteric point of view we see that there is a battle between brain and sex. If the sex conquers the brain, the 5-pointed Star (Man) falls to the abyss with the feet upward and the head downwards; becomes an entity of darkness. This is the inverted star, this is the He- goat of Mendez.

The He-goat of Mendez represents black magic. A human figure with the head pointing downwards and the feet upwards, represents of course, a demon.

All magic power is found in the Five-Pointed Star. The whole science of Gnosis is summarised in the Blazing Star. Many Bodhisattwas (Human Souls of Masters) fell like the five-pointed Star, inverted, with the upper extremity pointing downwards and the two lower points facing upwards. One must have full consciousness of what a Bodhisattwa is.
The Superior Triad of every immortal spirit, of every man is composed of Atman, Buddhi and Manas.

1: Atman, the Being; Divine immortal spark has two souls which in esoterism are called Buddhi and Manas.

2: Buddhi, Fundamental principle, feminine Spiritual Soul, superlative consciousness of the Being.

3: Manas, masculine Human Soul.

The Master, in himself, is Atman, the Being, Buddhi and Manas. When a Master comes to the world he needs to take a body; Atman commands Manas, its Human Soul, and it appears, living in the phys ical world. That is what is called a Bodhisattwa, which realises that which it has to carry out. In addition, the Buddhi can be placed within, and it does what it must do.

Thus we have the case of the Master Jehova who sent his Bodhisattwa to Chile. At present he is a youth doing foolish things, and the Master simply waits for his Bodhisattwa to mature so that he may enter him. Jehova is the regent of the ancient Moon; is a great Master who has intentionally been confused with Jahve, the head of the black lodge, he who tempted Jesus offering Him all the treasures of this world. Jesus

replied: “Satan, Satan, thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God”. Jahve may be represented by the five-pointed star with the feet pointing upwards.

A Bodhisattwa who allows himself to fall becomes a black magician and if he does not elevate himself, comes to an incarnation which is much harder, more bitter; he suffers terribly. If at the end of various incarnations, each one more difficult, he does not elevate himself, he is sent to the infernal worlds, accused of three crimes:

1: Having assassinated the Buddha.
2: Having dishonoured the Gods.
3: Various other less important offences.

Madame Blavatsky gave a very good explanation of what a Bodhisattwa is, but her followers have not understood it.

In this epoch the great majority of Bodhisattwas are fallen, and pass from life to life. We need to be humble to attain Wisdom, and afterwards, to be even more humble.
Bodhisattwas fall because of sex, and elevate them selves through sex.

Sex is the Philosophical Stone. It would be impossible to decapitate the Medusa (the Satan we carry within), without the precious treasure of the Philosophical Stone.
Remember that the Medusa is the damsel of evil (the psychological “I”) whose head is covered with hissing snakes. In occult science it is said that the union of Sophic Mercury and Sophic Sulphur gives as a result the Holy Philosophical Stone. The Ens Seminis is the Mercury, the Sulphur is the Holy Fire of Love.

Apollo and Diana; Man and Woman, must work in the ‘Magna Obra’, decapitating the Medusa, overcoming the tempting serpent, killing the lion of Nemea, taking from Tartarus the infernal dog, Cancerberus. They must work in the Great Work, realising the Twelve Labours of Hercules. Hercules (the Cosmic Christ), son of Jupiter (IO Pither) and Alcmene undertook 12 labours:

1st - The capture and killing of the lion of Nemea (the force of the instincts and uncontrolled passions, which devastates all and devours all).

2nd - Destruction of the Hydra of Lerna (the psychological defects in the subconscious).

3rd - Capture of the stag of Cerynea and the Erymanthean boar (the lower animal passions).

4th - Cleaning of the Stables of Augeas (submerged subconscious depths).

5th - To kill with bow and arrow the birds of lake Stymphalus (be witching psychological aggregates in the subconscious under- currents).

6th - Capture of the Cretan Bull (sexual impulses, passionate impulses, rashness, infrahuman elements.)

7th - Capture of the Mares of Diomedes (passionate inhuman elements, deeply submerged in our own unconscious abysses).

8th - To do away with Cacus the thief (the bad thief who plunders the sexual centre in order to satisfy his animal passions).

9th - The winning of the Girdle of Hippolyta (feminine psychological aspect of our real interior nature).

10th - Winning of the Oxen of Geiyon (this is related with the detachment).

11th - Stealing of the Apples from the Garden of the Hesperides.

12th - Taking of the three-headed dog from his Plutonian dominion (the guide dog, the sexual instinct).

Each time that Hercules, the Instructor of the World comes, he has to realise the same thing; a work of complete pacification. The Cosmic Christ practices what he preaches;
from the time he is sma ll the tenebrous serpents of evil come to attack him, the Herods to persecute him, etc.

The Cosmic Christ does not demand other than what he himself practices, He is the Master of all Masters, realises his works of purification, of dissolution of the “I”, of the ego.

Mythology speaks about the efforts of the “Soplones”, they who try to raise the stone to the summit, and the aforementioned stone falls once again; that is, like the effort of the students who spill the Ens-Seminis.

Arcanum number 5 is the Law; this Arcanum represents the “Karma” of the Initiate. We must understand that the Karma, in the final synthesis, serves in oixler to live in the flesh all the Drama of the Passion of our Lord, Jesus Christ.

It is necessary for people to understand what the Sanskrit word “Karma” is.

My friends, a Law exists which is called Karma, and it is pertinent to assert that that word itself means: law of action and consequence. Cause obviously does not exist without effect, nor effect without cause. The Law of Balance, the terrible Law of Karma governs all that is created. Every cause becomes an effect, and every effect is transformed into cause. You must understand what the law of compensation is. One must pay for everything that one does, because there does not exist cause without effect, nor effect without cause.

We have been given freedom, free will, and we can do as we wish. It is clear however, that we must answer to God for all of our acts. Any action in our life, good or bad, has its consequences. The law of action and consequence governs the course of our various existences, and each life is the result of the previous one.

To completely understand the bases and “Modus Operandi” of the law of Karma is indispensable in order to orient the ship of our life through the different levels of life in a positive and edifying manner.

Karma is the law of compensation, not of vengeance. There are those who confuse this cosmic law with determinism, and even fatalism; to the point of believing that everything that happens to man in life is in exorably determined beforehand. It is true that the actions of a man de termine his heredity, education and environment. It is also true however that man has free-will and can change his actions; refine his character, create superior habits, overcome weaknesses, strengthen virtues etc.

Karma is a medicine which is given for our own good; unfortunately, instead of people bowing reverently before the eternal living God, they protest, blaspheme, justify themselves, foolishly excuse themselves and, as Pilate, wash their hands. With such protests the Karma is not modi fied; on the contrary, it becomes harder and more severe.

When one comes to this world, one brings one’s own destiny; some are born on a feather bed, others in misfortune. If in our past existence we killed, now they kill us, if we wounded, now we are wounded, if we stole, now we are robbed, and “by the rod with which we measure others, so we will be measured.”

We demand fidelity of our spouse when we ourselves have been adulterous in this or in previous lives. We ask for love when we have been heartless and cruel. We seek comprehension when we have never been able to understand anyone; when we have never been able to learn to see another’s point of view.

We desire immense happiness when we have always been the cause of much
unhappiness. We would have liked to be born in a very beautiful home with many comforts, when in past existences we did not know how to provide a home and beauty for our children.

We protest about being insulted, when we ourselves have always insulted those around us. We want that our children obey us when we never knew how to obey our parents.
Slander annoys us terribly when we have always defamed others and have filled the world with pain. Gossip makes us angry; we do not want anyone to say anything about us; nonetheless we went about spreading gossip and rumo urs, speaking ill of our fellowman, causing other people lives of distress. That is to say, we always demand that which we have not given; in all our previous lives we were worthless and deserve the worst, but we consider that we should receive the best.

Fortunately my friends, Justice and Mercy are the two Toral Columns of the Universal White Lodge.

Justice without Mercy is tyranny; Mercy without Justice is tolerance, in dulgence of the crime. Karma is negotiable, and this is something which may surprise a great many of the followers of the different orthodox schools.

Some pseudo-esoterists and pseudo-occultists have become excessively pessimistic in relation to the law of action and consequence; they mis takenly consider that it operates in a mechanical, automatic, and cruel ma nner. The erudites believe that it is not possible to alter the law; I am sincerely sorry, but I have to disagree with this manner of thinking.

If the law of action and consequence, if the nemesis of existence were not negotiable, what then would remain of divine mercy? Frankly, I am unable to accept cruelty in divinity. The real, that which is complete per fection, that which has different names like Tao, Aum, INRI, Sein, Allah, Brahma, God, or better said, Gods, etc., etc., etc., could in no manner be something without mercy, cruel, tyrannical, etc. Due to all of the above, I emphatically repeat that Karma is negotiable.

It is possible to alter our own destiny because: “When an inferior law is transcended by a superior law, the superior law washes away the inferior law.”

In altering the cause, one alters the effect. “The lion of the law is over-come with the balance.” If on one tray of the scale we place our good deeds and on the other we place the bad, either both trays will weigh equally, or there will be some imbalance. If the tray of bad actions weighs more, we must place good deeds on the tray of good actions with the purpose of inclining the balance in our favour; thus we cancel Karma. Perform good acts in order to pay your debts; remember that one does not only pay with pain, one may pay by doing good.

Now you will understand my good friends, how marvellous it is to do good. Without doubt, right thought, right feeling, and right action are the best form of negotiation.

We must never protest against Karma, the important thing is to know how to negotiate.
Unfortunately the only thing which occurs to people when they find themselves in a very bitter circumstance, is to wash their hands like Pilate, saying that they have done nothing wrong, that they are not guilty, that they are righteous souls etc., etc., etc.

I say to those who are in misery that they examine their conduct; that they judge themselves; that they take a seat, even if only for an instant, in the dock; that after a summary analysis of themselves they change their behaviour. If they who find themselves without work were to be come chaste, infinitely charitable, peaceful, completely obliging; it is obvious that they would radically alter the cause of their misfortune, consequently altering the effect.

It is impossible to alter an effect if we have not previously radically changed the cause which produces it; because, as we have already said, effect does not exist without cause, nor cause without effect.

One must work always in a selfless manner with infinite love for humanity; thus we alter those bad causes which bring about the bad effects.

There is no doubt that misery has its causes in drunkenness, nauseating lust, in violence, in adulteries, in wastefulness and in avarice etc., etc.

Do you want to be healed? Then heal others. Some of your family are in prison? Work for the liberty of others. Are you hungry? Share food with those who are worse off than you etc.

Many people who suffer only recall their miseries wishing to find a remedy for them; but they do not remember the sufferings of others, it does not even enter their heads to provide for the needs of their fellowman. This egotistical state of their existence serves no end; and thus, the only thing which they achieve is to aggravate their sufferings.

If such people were to think of others, to think about being of service to their fellowman, of giving food to the hungry giving a drink to the thirsty of clothing the naked, of teaching those who do not know, etc, clearly they would place good acts upon the tray of the cosmic balance in order to incline it in their favour. Thus they would alter their destiny and fortune would favour them; that is to say, all of their necessities would be met. People are however, very egotistical, and for this reason they suffer. Nobody thinks of God nor their fellowman except when they are in desperation and this is something which everyone has been able to prove for himself; such is humanity.

Unfortunately, my dear friends, that ego which each one carries within does exactly the opposite of what we are saying here; for this reason it is urgent, unpostponable, something which ca not be put off, to reduce the “myself” to a cosmic dust cloud.

Let’s consider for a moment the mass of humanoids who populate the face of the Earth.
They suffer the indescribable, victims of their own errors. Without the ego there would not be those errors nor would they suffer the consequences of them.

All that is needed in order to have the right to true happiness is, above all, not to have the ego. Certainly when the psychic elements do not exist within us, the inhuman elements which make us so horrible and wicked, there is no karma to pay, and the result is happiness.

It is also good to know that when we have radically eliminated the ego, the possibility of offending is wiped out and in consequence, karma can be pardoned.

The Law of Karma, the Law of Cosmic Balance is not a blind law; we can also solicit credit from the Masters of Karma, and this is something which many are unaware of. It is

urgent to know however, that all credit must be paid for with good works, and that if one does not pay, then the Law retrieves with supreme pain.

We need to make ourselves conscious of our own karma, and this is only possible by means of a state of alert novelty. Every effect in life, every event, has its cause in a previous life; but we need to make ourselves conscious of that.

Each moment of happiness or pain must be continued in meditation with the mind quiet, and in profound silence. The subsequent result will be the experience of the same event in a previous life. Then we will make ourselves conscio us of the cause of the fact, be it agreeable or disagreeable.

Whoever awakens consciousness can travel with his internal bodies out side of the physical body with complete conscious will and study his own book of destiny in the Temple of Anubis and his fo rty two Judges. The head of the priests of the Tribunal of Karma is the great Master Anubis. The Temple of Anubis, the supreme regent of karma is found in the molecular world, called by many, the astral world. In that tribunal only rules the terror of love and justice. There, exists a book for each one with the debts and credits.
Each day one’s good and bad actions are meticulously noted in it. Good acts are represented by strange coins which the Masters accumulate in favour of the men and women who perform them. Defence lawyers are also to be found in that tribunal;
however, everything is paid for, nothing is obtained as a gift. He who has good works pays, and comes off well in the dealings. Credit solicited is paid for with unselfish works, inspired by love for those who suffer.

The Masters of Karma are Judges of Conscience who live in a state of Jinas. We have to do good works constantly in order to have the where withal to pay our debts of this life and of past lives. All the actions of man are ruled by laws; some superior, others inferior.
In love is epito mised all of the superior laws. An act of love annuls past acts inspired by inferior laws. For this reason, speaking of love the Master Paul said:

“Love is patient, love is kind. Love is not envious, works not evil, knows not pride; is not rude, neither selfish; is slow to anger, imagines no mischief, rejoices not in injustice, but delights in justice. Love defends all, love believes all, love hopes all, love bears all”.

When they officiate as judges, the Masters of Karma use the sacred mask in the form of the head of a jackal or a feathered wolf; and with it they appear to the Initiates in the internal worlds. That is the cruelty of the law of love.

To negotiate with the Lords of the Law is possible by means of meditation: pray, meditate and concentrate in Anubis, the most exalted Regent of the good law.

For the unworthy, all of the doors are closed except one; that of repentance. Ask and you shall receive, knock and it will be opened to you.

SYNTHESIS

Karma is not only paid for the bad one does, but for the good which one could have done and did not do.

Each bad action is a note which one signs in order to pay in a subse quent life.

“When an inferior law is transcended by a superior law, the superior washes away the inferior”.

“May no-one delude himself; what a man sows that shall he reap; and his deeds shall follow him.”

The Lords of Karma in the tribunals of Objective Justice judge the souls by their works, by the clear and definitive concrete facts, and not the good intentions.

The results are always that which speak; it serves no purpose to have good intentions if the facts are disastrous.

During the esoteric initiatic processes of fire, I had to fully comprehend the following postulates:

The Lion of the Law is combated with the Balance.

He who has capital with which to pay, pays, and comes off well in the dealings.

He who does not have the means to pay must pay with pain.

Do good works so as to pay your debts.

---

CHAPTER 28, ARCANUM NUMBER 6

In the Seal of Solomon is the expression of Arcanum number 6. The Star of Bethlehem is the Seal of Solomon. The six points of the star are masculine. The six indentations which are formed between each point are feminine. (In summary the star has 12 rays - 6 masculine, 6 feminine.) In these are summarised and synthesised the mysteries of the Arcanum A.Z.F. (Sexual Magic).

The Seal of Solomon, the Christmas Star is the perfect symbol of the Central Sun (the Cosmic Christ, perfect multiple unity.) The God-Child can never be born in the heart of Man without the gleam and the life of the brilliant Christmas Star. One must work with the Arcanum A.Z.F. in order to be able to incarnate it.

Summarised within the Seal of Solomon are all of the zodiacal proportions; the 12 rays of the brilliant star crystallise by means of the Alchemy into the 12 zodiacal constellations.
Found written in the Seal of Solomon are the intimate relationships which exist between the zodiac and the invincible Central Sun. The sexual genesis of the zodiac is represented in the Seal of Solomon.

The V.M. of Light, Hilarius IX, speaking of the brilliant star said: “It is the basic form of all crystallisations, and the schematic model of all flowerings. Its two triangles which unite or separate love are the shuttles with which one weaves or unravels the ineffable mystery of eternal life. Above, the Most Holy Eternity which activates as the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Below, its counter part with the power which governs, the power which liberates, and the power which executes.”

“I am the resplendent Morning Star” exclaims John, the “beloved of Christ”, upon receiving into his own hands the Venustic Initiation.

“And thus each time that the eternal geometrician fixes his attention upon a point in space,from that point arises the glorious star announcing the birth of a new state of consciousness, the Archetype of a Being, a globe, a heavenly body, a sun.” (Fourth message of the Avatar Ashrama.)

The superior triangle in the Seal of Solomon represents the immortal, eternal triad. The inferior triangle represents the three traitors who are within us:

1: The Demon of Desire.
2: The Demon of the Mind.
3: The Demon of Ill- will.

These are the three bad friends of Job, the three assassins of Hiram Abiff: Judas, Caiaphas, Pilate - Christian symbolism.

Apopi, Hai, Nebt - Egyptian symbolism.

Sebal, Orteluk, Stokin - Masonic symbolism.

These three traitors live in the mind, are within ourselves. Remember that Dante represents Lucifer as being in the centre of the Earth and having three mouths, and within each one of his mouths there is a traitor.

The Bible cites these three traitors in the Apocalypse of Saint John, 16. 13-14:

“And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet.”

These three spirits in the form of frogs are the traitors who betray the internal Christ from moment to moment, and who constitute the foun dation of the re- incarnating ego, the “psychological I”, the Satan which must be dissolved in order to incarnate the internal Christ.

In the centre of the two triangles of the Seal of Solomon one finds the Tao Cross, the sign of the infinite. Both signs are phallic (sexual). The Soul finds itself between the two triangles and has to decide upon one path or the other; that of Light, or that of Darkness;
and the problem is absolutely sexual.

                            SACRED PHALLIC SYMBOLS

The key is found in the Sacred Serpent, in the cock who represents the IAO., the Verb, the word. There is the tempting serpent of Eden, the serpent of darkness which forms the horrible tail of Satan; and there is the serpent of copper which Moses entwined upon the Tau, that is to say, the Sexual Lingam; that which healed the Israelites in the desert; the dozing serpent, coiled three and a half times in the Church of Ephesus. The serpent must come out of its Church in the Muladhara Chakra and ascend through the spinal column in order to convert us into angels. If it descends towards the Atomic Infernos of Man we then become demons. Now you will understand why the serpent of the Caduceus is always double.

When the student spills the semen during his practices with the Arca num A.Z.F., he commits the crime of the Nicolaitans who work with the Maithuna in the Ninth Sphere

but spill the semen. They use that system in order to make the serpent descend, impelling it to the Atomic Infernos and forming the tail of Satan. This is how man becomes a demon.

I remember Krumm Heller who taught White Tantrism, but his son taught the Black;
practices of Maithuna with the spillage and loss of the seminal fluid. He became fascinated with that doctrine and became a demon, with a tail and horns on his forehead.
Many were the students who were led astray by the son of Krumm Heller. He was someone who was sincerely mistaken, who went from here, saying that the Great Law took him.

The Alchemical weddings mean the Perfect Matrimony. The Alchemist must not only kill desire, but also even the very shadow itself of the horrible tree of desire. It will serve no purpose to renounce sex without previously having worked and fabricated the Solar Bodies and achieved the Second Birth; then one renounces it. First one must work with the Third Logos, the terrible Forge of Cyclops; then one works with the Sec ond Logos, Hercules; and lastly with the First Logos. The error of monks and nuns is to renounce sex without having fabricated the Solar Bodies. The result is that they are to be found in limbo, dressed in rags. One must be dressed with the wedding garment in order to be able to enter the kingdom of the Heavens.

In the Eleusinian Mysteries the couples danced in order to mutually magnetize themselves. Nature must be imitated in everything; that is, the energy must be transmuted.

In the temple of the Sphinx the book of the Laws of Nature is studied. This is followed by a test, called the Test of the Sanctuary. On passing it, the student is given a ring with the Seal of Solomon (which must never be touched with the left hand) and which gleams with great brilliance in the internal worlds.

In works of High Magic a magic circle must be traced which will have to be sealed with the Seal of Solomon.

Medallions and rings of the Seal of Solomon with the seven metals can be made. The Seal of Solomon should be utilised in all works of invocation, and in practices with the elementals. The elementals of nature tremble before the Seal of the Living God. The

Angel of the Sixth Seal of the Apocalypse is now reincarnated in a feminine body (she is a specialist in the sacred science of Jinns).

In the Apocalypse of the Bible 7.1-3 it says: “And I saw another angel ascending from the east, having the seal of the living God (the Seal of Solomon), and he cried with a loud voice to the four angels, (the four keepers of Karma who control the four points of the Earth with the Law), to whom it was given to hurt the earth and the sea, saying, Hurt not the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, till we have sealed the servants of our God in their foreheads.”

A period of time was needed in order for people to study the doctrine of Christ and to decide for Christ or for Jahve; for the White Lodge or the Black Lodge.

The servants of God were sealed upon their foreheads. The servants of Satan were also sealed on their foreheads (the mark of the Beast).

The times of the end have already come, and we are in their midst. The Ten Days have already expired (the wheel of the centuries, the Arcanum number 10).

Humanity is classified with the Seal of the Living God. The majority have already received the mark of the Beast upon their foreheads and upon their hands. Only a few have received the sign of the Lamb upon their foreheads.

SYNTHESIS

We have entered the world of Will and of Love.

In order to enter the amphitheatre of Cosmic Science one must steal the fire from the devil.

The lover must steal the light from the darkness.

Sexual Magic must be practised intensively with the wife.

The Flaming Sword of Eden must be reconquered.

---

CHAPTER 29, ARCANUM NUMBER 7

The number 7 represents magic power with all its force. The Holy Seven is the Sanctum Regnum of Sacred Magic, of the high esoteric Magic in Kabalah; the war chariot.

Number 7 is the Intimus, that is, our Real Being, served by all of the elemental forces of nature. Nature is a great living organism, in the final synthesis this great machine is controlled by elemental forces.

Sacred Fire from the physical point of view is produced by combustion; however, the elemental fire itself can exist from the essential point of view; the Fire of the Wise.
Within that elemental fire live the Salaman ders. Franz Hartman describes them in his book called “The Elementals”. Esoterists know that the elementals and elemental Gods of fire exist. If we look at Maya, Aztec angelology etc., we will find the Gods of fire. The Elemental Fire of the Wise exists in all of nature.

Air, in ultimate synthesis is elemental. The tattwa Vayu, the elemental principle of air is animated by elemental creatures or Sylphs, about which the kabalists speak. That elemental air of the wise is in reality, ether in movement. Physicists say that wind is air in movement, but occultists see that in that air in movement there exist forces which impel it, and they are the Sylphs.

Water has an elemental principle; the tattwa Apas. In that principle, in that base, in that substance we find the Ondines, Nereides, Nymphs. Anyone who has studied the ancient or classical Latin works will have found in them the elementals of the waters.

The earth element is ruled by certain elemental creatures; it is in the tattwa Prithvi where the Gnomes or Pygmies of the Kabalah are to be found.

Fire is transformed into air, air into water and water into earth. The tattwas assist us in the transmutation of lead into Gold by means of the Caduceus of Mercury.

TATTWAS                        ELEMENTALS

Akash                          Principle of Ether.
Vayu                           Principle of Air.
Tejas                          Principle of Fire.
Prithvi                        Principle of Earth.
Apas                           Principle of Water.

This first order which is mentioned is in accordance with Rama Prasat. The true order is:

Akash                          Principle of Ether.
Tejas                          Principle of Fire.

Vayu                           Principle of Air.
Apas                           Principle of Water
Prithvi                        Principle of Earth

The first thing there is in creation is infinite space, which is a great Soul. The Fire arises which becomes Air; Air becomes Water and Water, Earth, and worlds appear. This is the true order of the elements. The Intimus is Divine Spirit, is the chief of all the elemental forces.

All who work with the Arcanum A.Z.F. receive the Flaming Sword. This sword
corresponds to Arcanum number 7 of the Kabalah.

The Guardians of the ancient Mystery Temples use the Flaming Sword, and they who have awakened Kundalini receive it. In occult Masonry the sword is used, it is received with the advent of the Fire. From the point of view of occult Masonry, the Flaming Sword is the result of in cessant transmutations.

The Elohim or Prahapatis carry their Flaming Swords. Those Elohim are Divine, and an Elohim without a sword would be inconceivable. We know that the sexual organs constitute the real Sanctum Laboratorium of the Third Logos, they are the creative organs of the Flaming Sword.

The 22 Arcana in their essence pertain to the Ninth Sphere. The Amphitheatre of Eternal Wisdom is in the creative organs given that all life comes from here. In the Garden of Delights of Alchemy we find the word VITRIOL ; this word is to be found in the Alchemical treatises and ancient tractates of Kabalah.

The above word is acrostic, being derived from the phrase: “Visitabis Interiora Terrae Rectificando Invenies Ocultum Lapidem”. (Visit the interior of our Earth, and rectifying it you will find the hidden stone).

We must search within the interior of our philosophical earth (the human organism) so that, correcting, and working with the Arcanum A.Z.F., the Maithuna, we will find the Philosophical Stone.

The Sun (phallus), masculine principle, is the Father of the Stone. The Moon (uterus), feminine principle, is the Mother of the Philosophical Stone. The Wind (seminal vapours)
carried the Son in its bosom and the Earth nourished Him this is related with the Four Elements which are living manifestations of Akash.

The Sun and the Moon, the masculine and feminine principles are com bined within the chalice (the brain) which is supported upon the Caduceus of Mercury with the two channels of Ida and Pingala.

The two influences which act upon the Uncut Stone, to which we need to give the perfect cubical form, are one of a masculine character and the other of a feminine character.

The human being has seven bodies, each body has its spinal column and its Sacred Serpent.

The seven bodies of man are the following:

1: Physical Body.
2: Astral Body or Body of Desire.
3: Mental Body.
4: Causal Body.
5: Body of Will.
6: Body of Consciousness.
7: Body of the Intimus.

We have Seven Serpents; two groups of three, with the sublime corona tion of the Seventh Tongue of Fire, which unites us with the One, with the Law, with the Father.

All of the work is realised with the Great Arcanum. The seven-pointed star is the inseparable, vital part of the Vitriol, of that work with the Maithuna. The Seven Serpents of Alchemy are related with the seven planets, the Seven Great Cosmic Realisations, the Seven Grades of Power of Fire. The acrostic Vitriol with its seven letters and seven words symbolises all of the Great Work; gives the seven secret words pronounced by the Solar Logos on Calvary. The Mysteries of Arcanum 7 are terribly divine.

In the National Museum of Anthropology in Mexico City there is an Aztec sculpture in the form of a decapitated man. In the place of the head there are Seven Serpents which represent the Seven Grades of Power of Fire. The Seven Snakes (a phallic image) being related with the seven planets, with the seven basic, fundamental dimensions, the seven vowels I.E.O.U.A.M.S. which resound in all nature, with the seven words of the Vitriol.
All of this is related with the Law of Heptaparaparshinok, this is the Law of the Eternal Seven, the ineffable Cosmic Law.

Akabalistic esoteric symbol is the seven-pointed star surrounded by a double circle with the signs of the seven planets it is a powerful talisman. The two circles represent the eternal masculine and feminine principle s.

Those students of occultism who think about attaining Self-Realisation without the Arcanum A.Z.F. are absolutely mistaken. Madame Blavat sky, after having written the 6 volumes of the Secret Doctrine, said that they who wished to know the mysteries of Chiram must look to the old Alchemists. She was in Agarthi, renounced Nirvana in order to attain the Venustic Initiation, is now twice-born, possesses the Solar Bodies, lives in the sacred monasteries and is going to return to this world which is more bitter than bile.

She prepares to take a body in the United States, in New York. This Great Master was a true Yogini, a disciple of Kout Houmi and yet after having become the widow of Count Blavatsky, married Colonel Olscott so as to work with the Arcanum of Sexual Magic.
Only thus did she attain profound Self- Realisation.

The great Yogi-Avataz Lahiri Mahasaya was called for Initiationby the immortal Babaji whilst he still had a wife; in this manner the Yogi-Avatar Self- Realised. In India Sexual Magic is known by the Sanskrit term “Urdhvaratus”.

Authentic yogis practice sexual magic with their wives. There are two types of Bramacharya (sexual abstention), Solar and lunar. The Solar is for those who have attained the Second Birth and the lunar is that absurd sexual abstention which serves for nothing other than to cause sickening, nocturnal pollutions with all of their disastrous consequences.

There are seven vices which we must transmute:

The Solar Pride -             into faith, into humility.
The Lunar Avarice -           into altruism.
The Venusian Lust -           into chastity.
The Martian Cholera -         into love.
The Mercurian Laziness -      into diligence.
The Saturnian Gluttony -      into temperance.
The Jovian Envy -             into happiness for the wellbeing of others.

Only with the science of the transmutations are we able to disintegrate the defects and dissolve the Psychological “I”. Only with the science of the trans mutations are we able to modify our errors, transmute the base metals into Pure Gold and govern. Work with the Arcanum A.Z.F. so that you may receive the sword.

The Arcanum number 7, “Triumph”, is attained through great struggles and bitterness.
We see this in the Seven Capital which we must transmute into Seven Virtues; in the transmutation of the seven inferior metals into Pure Gold.

The Rulers of the seven planets are:

Gabriel        Moon
Raphael        Mercury
Uriel          Venus
Michael        Sun
Samael         Mars
Zachariel      Jupiter
Orifiel        Saturn

The seven kabalistic signs of the planets are:

Moon           A Globe cut by two half- moons
Mercury        A Caduceus and the yellow baboon
Venus          The Sexual Lingam
Sun            A Serpent with a lion’s head
Mars           A Dragon biting the hilt of a sword

Jupiter        The Pentagram or the beak of an eagle
Saturn         A lame old man or a stone with the coiled serpent

The seven talismans have the power to attract the seven planetary forces. With the stones and metals perfect talismans can be prepared.

SYNTHESIS

The “Our Father” is the most perfect prayer. The “Our Father” with its seven esoteric petitions is one of the magic prayers. Each petition must be meditated upon.

He who wishes to become a Magician must attain the Sword.

The Sword is the Kundalini. The Sword is the Fire of the Holy Spirit.

One has to work with the Arcanum A.Z.F. to attain the Sword. The struggle is terrible.

The warrior can only free himself from the Four Bodies of Sin by means of the Arcanum A.Z.F.

We gain nothing in filling our heads with theories.

It is better to love a good woman and practice Sexual Magic with her daily, than to be wasting time with polemics intellectualism and the ries.

In this manner we acquire the Sword of Kundalini and awaken all of magical powers so as to enter through the gates of the our Triumphal City.

---

CHAPTER 30, ARCANUM NUMBER 8

In Arcanum 8 we find the Eighth Key of Basil Valentine. He was, with out doubt a great Gnostic. The gospel of Valentine is admirable; the eighth key refers to the processes of life and of death in the Philosophical Stone carved with the hammer of Intelligence and the chisel of Will.

The eighth key is a clear and perfect Alchemical allegory of the proc esses of the Death and Resurrection which inevitably follow in the eso teric preparation of the Philosophical Stone which is between the columns Jakin and Boaz. The crude stone must be polished in order to trans form it into a cubical stone.

The Stone is Peter, and refers to the blessed waters of Amrita. In the perfect edges and angles of the Stone we see the man who works with Amrita. The rough stone and the smooth are situated at the entrance of the Temple beyond the columns. The Worked Stone is to the right, its particularity is that it has “Nine” angles forming “Four” crosses.
They who raise the Temple upon the sands fail. It must be raised upon the living rock, upon the Stone. All human matter employed in this work dies, putrefies, rots and goes black in the Philosophical Egg; then it whitens marvellously.

That is to say, within us the Black dies; then appears the White, that which makes of us Masters. Let us remember for a moment the work in the Ninth Sphere, the dissolution of the “I”. Let us remember the work in the purgatorial region. The Initiates appear there like putrefying cadavers because all of those larvae that we have within us, rise to the surface giving the bodies of the Initiate the appearance of a decomposing cadaver.

In the eighth key, being an illustration of the Viridarium Chymicum, death is represented by a cadaver, putrefaction by some horns, the sowing by a humble peasant, growth by a stalk of wheat. The Resurrectio n is represented by a corpse who rises from the sepulchre and by an Angel who sounds the trumpet of the Final Judgement.

All of this represents that we must die in ourselves; the “Ego”, the “My self” must become white, pure, clean, perfect. The stage of putrefaction is when one is within the purgatorial region, represented by the horns. A cadaver in a state of putrefaction appears there. It has repulsive, animalesque forms; reptiles, spiders, filthy worms, horrible larvae.

With the aid of the Divine Mother, Kundalini, those animalesque forms are reduced to cosmic dust.

After the seeds of the ego have been incinerated, with the purification of the rotting mass in Purgatory, the Initiate bathes in the rivers Lethe and Eunoe, his bodies shining marvellously. He must be later confirmed in the Sex- Light and then comes the Initiatic Resurrection, represented by the Angel who plays the trumpet. Jesus, after His Resurrection, taught his disciples for many years.

The interesting thing is that all of that putrefaction is realised in the Philo sophical Egg (sex). One comes to be confirmed by the Light in the eighth key of Basil Valentine. After attaining the Second Birth, sex is prohibited, and the Master is told : “You may not return to work in the Ninth Sphere because you would then resuscitate the “I” and you have been freed of it. Your esoteric tests have terminated and sex remains prohibited to you for all of eternity.” Sex is the lowest part of Initiation, and if it is that we wish to achieve illumination, Self- Realisation, we have to draw back the Veil of Isis, which is the Adamic Sexual Veil.

In the Philosophical Egg (sex), which represents the germ of all life, is found all of the work of the Great Work. The masculine- feminine sexual principles are contained within the Egg. Just as the egg issues from the pigeon; just as the Golden Egg of Brahma issues from the universe; so also, from the Philosophical Egg comes the Master. Due to this it is said that they are Sons of the Stones and they render cult to the Stones.

We Gnostics know that the cadaver, the death of the eighth key repre sents the Two Witnesses of the Apocalypse (11.3-6) which are now dead.

By means of the Alchemical putrefaction, represented by the two horns, by means of the works of Alchemy, the Two Witnesses are resuscitated.

All power is found enclosed within the ear of wheat. The Sacred Angel which we carry within sounds his trumpet and the Two Witnesses arise from the sepulchre.

The Two Witnesses are a pair of sympathetic channels, semi-etheric, semi-physical, which are entwined about the spinal column forming the Caduceus of Mercury, the Holy Eight, the sign of the Infinite. They are known in the East as Ida and Pingala.

Eight is the number of Job, the man of saintly patience. That number represents the life and sacrifice of Job which is the path which leads the Initiate towards the Second Birth.
The tests are very hard, we need the patience of Saint Job; without it, it is impossible for one to do that Work. To Job came a grave illness (Job 2. 9) (the flesh of Lazarus was rotting; Luke 16. 19-31), the friends of Job, Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar (the three traitors of the Internal Christ) said to him: “If you are a friend of God’s then why don’t you complain?” He said: “The Lord gave and the Lord hath taken away” (Job 1. 21). The number of Job is patience and meekness; here lies the path of putrefaction. The original Bible, which includes the works of the Aeneid, the Odyssey and Maccabees bears witness

to this. Examples of the abovementioned Bible are to be found in the museum in London, in the Vatican, and the Washington Museum. The modern Bible is a cadaver. The Bible is an Arcanum; in Psalms, chapter 19 it deals with the Tarot.

In Arcanum number 8 are contained the Initiatic Tests. Each Initiation, each grade, has its tests. The Initiatic Tests become more and more de manding in accordance with the Initiatic grade. The number 8 is the level of Job; this sign, this number, signifies tests and suffering. Initiatic tests are realised in the superior worlds and in the physical world. The tests of Initiation are truly terrible. Great patience is needed so as not to fall to the abyss.
We are tested many times.

SYNTHESIS

When our disciples wish to beg help from the Lords of Karma, paint the six-pointed star upon the ground, open the arms in the form of a balance and move them upwards and downwards having the mind concentrated on Anubis.

We can then beg the Lords of Karma for the desired favour. Whilst moving the arms in the form of a balance vocalise the syllables: NI, NE, NO, NU, NA.

This is the way we may beg assistance of the Lords of Karma in moments of necessity or danger. All credit must be paid for.

---

CHAPTER 31, ARCANUM NUMBER 9

This Arcanum is that of the Hermit; he appears as an old man who carries a lantern in his right hand. This lantern must be held aloft in order to cast light on the path, it must be elevated, raised high in order to illuminate. If the number nine is multiplied with any digit it always gives nine.

Example:       2 x 9 =18       1+8=9
               4 x 9 = 36      3+6=9
               5 x 9 = 45      4+5=9

This is very interesting; there exist 9 infernal circles within the interior of the Earth. From the epidermis of the Earth to the interior we can say that there are nine parallel infernal universes, which go to the very heart of the Earth; the ninth circle being in the centre of the Earth. These nine circles are the 9 demonic or diabolic regions. Nine superior circles also exist which in occultism are termed the 9 heavens. We can represent these 9 heavens with the 9 planets.

When, for example, we refer to the Moon, we should not think of the physical satellite, Moon. The diabolic sub- lunar region must not be sought in the Moon, but rather in the interior of the Earth. Now let’s think about the Lunar Heaven; this does not exactly mean that it is of the Moon, but rather of the superior regions, that is, molecular regions which are lunar and are governed by the Moon. It is a lunar molecular world which is to be found here, in our world.

This first Lunar Heaven has its science, here are to be found the souls who merit ascending to this region, because not all of the disincarnated succeed in attaining this heaven. The majority of the disincarnated return from the threshold in order to enter the region of the dead, and later penetrate a new womb. Others enter involution submerged in the nine infernal spheres.

One enters the first lunar heaven to rest; the Moon is related with sexual chastity. Here one may recall various errors that have been committed related with sex.

There is a grave problem: the Moon tends towards materialism, all terrestrial mechanicity is controlled by the Moon. All life on Earth, the whole terrestrial mechanism is controlled by the Moon. The whole of that me chanical life which we live is of a lunar type.

The Moon, like the pendular weight of a huge clock, makes the terres trial mechanism move. The growth of plants, animals, the ovulation of woman, the ebb and flow of the seas, the high and low tides etc., depend upon the Moon. Due to this fact, that life is so mechanical, if one really does want to triumph, one must take advantage of the waxing Moon in one’s activities; and also the full Moon. If the waning Moon is used, we fail.
The new Moon is very difficult, it has no force.

If one wants to succeed in some activity or in business dealings one in evitably has to take advantage of the waxing Moon and the full Moon. Never begin a transaction with the waning or new Moon.

In order to control lunar materialism one must appeal to the perfumes of the rose and violet plants. They must be used in order to control ma terialism because the Moon exercises a materialistic influence upon the human mind. It is to our misfortune that the subjective elements which we have within are controlled by the Moon.

The Soul of every living being emanates from an atom; Ain Soph. Each one has his Ain Soph; this is a star which shines in infinite space, beyond the Nine Heavens. The Souls must return to their star, to their Ain Soph. The return to their star is something divine.
The day that one Self-Realises, one is given the satisfaction of returning to his star. This was spoken about by Plato in his “Timaeus”. Each three-brained biped must make, fabricate the butterfly in order to return to that star.

The Nine Heavens are in intimate concordance, they combine with the nine infernal circles. In total we have:

Nine Heavens + Nine Infernal Circles = 18.

1 + 8 = 9, the number of the Master, of the Initiate.

We need to Self-Realise in the 18 circles. An individual who has not Self Realised in the 18 circles is not a Master.

In synthesis, to be the perfect nine is to develop in the eighteen circles in order to be a Master.

Atman is the Divine Spirit (an emanation of the Logos) who has two Souls, Buddhi and Manas; it is vital to understand this. In the Middle Ages when the medieval knight went out to do battle for his lady, it was no other than the Human Soul fighting to win its Spiritual Soul.

I came to understand this when my Real Being took me to the Causal World which is of an intensely electric blue colour. The King, Atman, the Lord was seated at a table with a beautiful lady his Spiritual Soul, his Beatrice, his Valkyrie; and with the Human Soul they sat in a triangle. Atman began to speak, and said, “I have two Souls, the Spiritual Soul and the Human Soul, and whilst the Human Soul works, the Spiritual Soul plays, lives happily. This is my doctrine: thus we three are one.”

We reunite Atman, Buddhi and Manas in the Causal World, in that region of Causes.
Without that experience it would not be possible to explain this clearly.

Atman unfolds into Buddhi, and Buddhi into Manas, just as if we were to see ourselves in a mirror, and then the Trinity comes into being. The Essence is an unfoldment of Superior Manas, that Essence being in turn trapped in the “ego.” The awakening of that Essence is the awakening of consciousness; is to become conscious of the Mysteries of Life and Death. Many want to awaken consciousness, but in a given moment, abandon the work. Due to this, the Maithuna was never communicated to anyone before awakening consciousness. The Christmas Message 1968-69 contains the Runes for awakening consciousness.

To incarnate the Being, the Divine Trinity; that is really very difficult.

It is necessary to fabricate the Solar Bodies. If the Being were incarnated without having fabricated the Solar Bodies, one would not be able to withstand the electric shock, one would die.

To fabricate the Solar Bodies is vital, one must work in the Ninth Sphere; one has to descend to the Forge of Cyclops in order to work with the Water and the Fire. The creative energy is the Holy Spirit. Vulcan is the Third Logos, the sexual force, Shiva.

The Sacred Fire is “She”, the Igneous Serpent who rises through the spinal column, is Mother Kundalini. She is united with her husband in the pineal gland. The Third Logos, the Holy Spirit, the Eternal husband is he who fecundates the Divine Mother Kundalini, the root of the Monad, Mother Space.

The Cosmic seedbed, the Matripadma, is the Deva Mater, is Chaotic Matter, the Mater substance, the Materia Prima of the “Great Work”. That is Mother Space. The Holy Spir it is the Third Logos who fecundates her; who is latent in Matripadma. Without him, she remains still, and with him, she comes to light, reverberates, swells.

The Father is the First Logos, the Second is the Son, and the Third, the Holy Spirit. These three aspects are behind Atma, Buddhi and Manas. From Ain Soph emanates the Father,

from Him, the Son, and from Him, the Holy Spirit. These three Logoii are the Tao, Brahatma, the Universal Spirit of Life; and beyond this is the Absolute. These three Logoii emanate from that Universal Ocean of Life. A wave which arises may be Ishvara, a Purusha who teaches, and having taught, merges with the Spirit of the Ocean.

In itself, the Absolute has its three aspects; Ain, Ain Soph, and Am Soph Aur. To speak about Ain is difficult because it is the Unmanifested Absolute. Form does not exist in the Absolute, nor figure, nor number, nor weight. When the universe dissolves, only the memory remains in the consciousness of the Gods; and with those memories the universe of Pleroma is formed. If one wanted to take something from there it would not exist, because there are only memories.

SYNTHESIS

A Self-Realised Being is understood as someone who has created the Solar Bodies and who has finished with the ego.

One only descends to the Abyss by order of the Ancient of Days, and it will be in order to ascend.

Initiation is your life itself.

The Intimus is the one who receives the Initiations.

Thus it is that Initiation has nothing to do with any of those fantastic stories which are so prevalent in certain books.

Here, nothing is given to us as a gift, everything costs. He, to whom nothing is owed, nothing will be paid.

The Initiations are payments which the Logos makes to man when the disciple has sacrificed himself for humanity.

They who are only preoccupied with spiritual progress, and who do not work for others, obtain absolutely nothing. He who wants to progress must sacrifice for others.

Initiation is life itself, lived intensely, with rectitude and love.

---

CHAPTER 32, ARCANUM NUMBER 10

The Arcanum number 10 of the Tarot is the Wheel of Fortune, is the same wheel of Samsara, the tragic wheel which symbolises the Law of Ancient Return. One must differentiate between Return, Reincarnation, and Transmigration, which are completely different.

RETURN

Worlds, heavens, the stars, the four seasons return to their original point of life.

Throughout the 108 lives of each human being, in accordance with the 108 beads in the necklace of Buddha, the ego returns. When disincarnation occurs, some egos enter the infernal worlds and others return to a new womb; the ego is composed of many entities, some reincorporate in certain plant and animal organisms, and others, in human wombs.

And thus, the ego comes to a new organism. Within those egos returns the trapped part of the Buddhata (Essence), which is the Divine and fundamental part. Indubitably, many parts of us live in animal organisms.

Upon returning to this vale of tears, the same is repeated due to the Law of Recurrence;
that is, that everything happens again the same as in other lives. The Law of Return is intimately linked, associated, with the Law of Recurrence. That is to say, everything happens again just as it happened, with the addition of its good or bad consequences. The same dramas are repeated; this is called Karma.

REINCARNATION

Is the descent of Divinity to a man. The incarnation of Vishnu in a man is what is known as an Avatar. Vishnu is really the Christ, the Solar Logos. For this reason in India reincarnation was called the Act of Vishnu. Krishna spoke about this saying: “Only the Devas reincarnate”.

TRANSMIGRATION

Is when the Being begins to constitute part of the mineral kingdom, after a great length of time evolves to the vegetable kingdom, and later over a period of eternities, rises to the human state where it is assigned 108 lives. If at the end of the 108 lives it has not Self-Realised, involution commences in the submerged kingdoms of the planet Earth. The animaloid, vegetabloid and mineraloid states are recapitulated. In the profundities of the abyss, in the Atomic Infernos of nature, the Essence or Buddhata is purified, is liber ated by the disintegration of the ego. And so, the Essence freed after eternities ascends, beginning once again in the mineral kingdom, then the vegetable, the animal, until rising to the human state previously lost. This is the Law of Transmigration of Souls.

Only by awakening consciousness will we know if we are already involuting and returning to begin again. Eveiything to do with Return and Transmigration is of a lunar nature; only Reincarnation is Solar.

The Solar forces depart from the Law of Return, from the Law of Recur rence. All of this forms part of Arcanum number 10; whilst we do not dis solve the ego, we must continue Returning.

To liberate oneself it is necessary to die; the death of the ego is indispensa ble; the n one ceases “to return”.

If one studies the “Egyptian Book of the Dead”, one sees that it is Isis who is called to put the ego to death. Without the Divine Mother the death of the ego is impossible. The Essence is freed with the death of the ego and becomes lost in Osiris, the Divine Christ.
The Essence resuscitates in the heart of Osiris. Where will our feelings, our attachment to things, and our desires be? All that will no longer exist.

We have to die in order to free ourselves from the tragic wheel; we have to incinerate the seeds so that the ego may not revive, and bathe in the waters of Lethe and Eunoe; to be confirmed in the Light; to kill Cain who is the lunar mind. That mind is useless, it must be eliminated, it must be put to death because it is the Animal.

For that reason, the ancients saw in the Moon the figure of Cain; the mind was called Cain, and it was the hunter. The mind goes about hunting wealth, social position, fame.

The rogues use this mind in order to succeed; they consider themselves to be powerful sages with that well-cultivated lunar animal mind. There exists a figure of a decapitated Angel; the Angel of Samothrace. That sculpture means that after the ego has been dissolved, after having burned the seeds, having bathed and been confirmed in the Light etc., one must pass through the decapitation. The death of the lunar body and the lunar mind is lacking. These two bodies which constitute the Cain are the two subjective elements, those which must be decapitated. Then only Osiris remains, and the Essence which rests in the heart of Osiris. One then has the right to wear the Asp (the serpent)
upon the brow, and as is said in the “Book of the Dead”, one may now be seated as the other Osiris are seated and to wear the Serpent upon the forehead. One now has the Verb, has triumphed, one’s powers are not utffised in an egoistic manner.

Osiris is the Cosmic Christ. An Osirified man now has the Cosmic Christ, now no longer has subjetives elements, has now freed himself from that tragic wheel of lives and deaths wherein is rooted the cause of pain.

The most violent struggle in order to attain the elimination of the ego is with the terrible tempting serpent which is the Abominable Kundartiguador organ, the tail of Satan. This is the homble Pyt hon which Apollo wounded with his ar rows, it is the antithesis of the Divine Mother, dense and frightening matter, which fights against us.

Whilst we are not within the “Barque of Isis” we serve for nothing.

According to Egyptian wisdom, Thoth is Hermes, and Hermes is Mercury; the Great Hierophant, the Minister, the Ambassador of the Solar Logos, the Great instructor who elevates us from Initiation to Initiation. But, who ishe within us? He is the “Ens Seminis”.

Only through the Great Death are we able to escape from the great wheel of suffering of this world which is completely impermanent and painful. We must pass beyond the affection we feel for our loved ones; this is something which costs work.

This world is terribly painful; the only thing which is worthwhile in living is to Self-Realise because all is futile.

SYNTHESIS

Only by means of the Arcanum A.Z.F. do we liberate ourselves from the Wheel of Samsara.

In the end the Kingdom of Adam-Kadmon is absothed into the Absolute where shines forth life, freely in movement.

The Sephiroth make up the body of Adam-Kadmon.

When a man Self- Realises in depth, he enters the Kingdom of Adam Kadmon.

---

CHAPTER 33, ARCANUM NUMBER 11

In the Kabalah this Arcanum is known as the Arcanum of Persuasion. In essence, Persuasion is a force of subtle spiritual order. Occult wisdom says: “Intensify the flame of the spirit with the force of Love.”

In itself, love is a powerful, omnipotent force. The force of love keeps the worlds about their centres of cosmic gravity. These cosmic centres of gravity are the “Suns”. It is due to this that Hermes Trismegistus says: “I give you love in which is contained the whole summum of wisdom”.

A soft word pacifies anger. Persuasion has more power than violence. If a violent person wishes to attack, one directs a friendly word to him and this mollifies his violence. It is for this reason that in Arcanum number 11 there is a woman opening the jaws of a lion;
that is the living force of Persuasion.

Considering this more deeply, we find the double-headed lion which represents the Two Lands, the visible, and the invisible. The lion itself is a very important, very interesting animal. In Atlantis they served as draught animals, they pulled carriages, were tame.
After the submersion of Atlantis they became savage. The lion is a living symbol of “Fire”. Observe the Sphinx which has the claws of the lion, representing the Fire. In the Aztec Calendar or Sun Stone there are lions’ claws.

These claws have a very grandiose meaning. If we add number 11 kabalistically: 1 + 1 = 2; we get Arcanum number 2 which is the Priestess, Occult Science, the Divine Mother.

She herself is living “Fire”, and for this reason, in the Orient she is called Devi Kundalini in the individual, and Maha Kundalini in the macrocosmic. It is vital to learn to work with the Fire and for this reason the “Two” breaks down kabalistically into 1 Man + 1 Woman who must work with the Fire, in the Magistery of Fire. The chariot pulled by lions is a very esoteric allegory and comes from most ancient times. The chariot represents the human being, the lion, Fire. It is none other than a living symbol of the Solar Man, the Sun-Man. When the chariot is spoken about, it is an allusion to the internal bodies of man; the vital, astral, mental; the Real Being must mount that chariot.
The Zohar depicts the “Ancient of Days” travelling across the Infinite in his chariot.
Without doubt, the Real Being must always travel in his chariot in order to work in the worlds.

The Lions of Fire are the synthesis of this kabalistic number because 11 breaks down into 1 + 1 = 2; and the 2 into two units; Man-Woman; the two columns of the Temple, Jakin and Boaz. Between those two columns is the Arcanum. Analysing this Arcanum we come in the end to the Magistery of Fire. The Sacred Fire cannot be awakened with pranayama nor with respiratory exercises combined with meditation. All these achieve is that tiny

fractions or sparks stimulate the awakening of the chakras. Such sparks ascend to one or another of the centres, but this does not mean that the Serpent has been raised.

Agni, the God of Fire assists the Fire to awaken, but working in the Ninth Sphere. Single persons can help themselves with practices of pranayama in order to raise sparks. That does not mean, however, that they will raise the Serpent.

We have a Furnace which is the “Coccyx” or Muladhara chakra. There, according to the indications of the alchemists, the recipient must be placed. Within this recipient is the Mercury of Secret Philosophy or “Ens Seminis”, within which is found the “Ens Virtutis”. The recipient must be closed so as to impede the Materia Prima (the semen)
from being completely lost.

The laboratory has a chimney through which the vapours must ascend this is the spinal column; and a distillery which is in the brain, for distilling the Pure Gold. This is the laboratory of the medieval Alchemists, who transformed lead into gold.

Many persons scorn the Elementals, and this we must not do.

The Salamanders tend the Fire, the Ondines are in the Materia Prima enclosed within its recipient. The Ondines assist us if we dominate them, if not, they do as they wish because they are very capricious. The Sylphs make rise the Vapours which are given off from the Materia Prima. The Gnomes take charge of the Materia Prima in the brain to distil it so that it becomes Gold.

I have known true Devas of Fire, I have been in contact with them. They live in the Causal World or world of Conscious Will; they told me that beyond clairvoyance is intuition which is superior because it pertains to Pure Spirit. With clairvoyance, one can investigate the superior or inferior regions of the molecular world. The intuition, on the other hand, functions directly in the world of Pure Spirit. Because of this, the intuition is superior. Intuition has its root in the pineal gland, the Sahasrara chakra or Thousand-Petalled Lotus. That faculty is related with Shiva, or the Blazing Fire, and for that reason gives us access to the world of Pure Spirit.

In the human being 49 Fires can exist; the 7 chakras or churches on 7 levels gives as a result, 49 Fires.

7 x 7 = 49

There are different types of fire; the fire of lightning, that which is concentrated in plants, the fire which blazes in the interior of the mountains and which the volcanoes vomit forth upon the Earth, the fire which is used for cooking, the fire of each world. In synthesis however, we may speak of two: Solar Fire and lunar fire. The Solar Fire is Christic, sub lime, is Devi Kundalini. The lunar fire is luciferic, negative, fatal.

The Solar Fire crystallises into worlds, Suns, universes. The lunar fire crystallises in all of those entities which form the animal ego.

Man has to develop the 49 Fires in his chakras.

SYNTHESIS

Arcanum 11 is the Work with the Fire, with the force of Love to turn us into Living Flames.

The Ondines work in the “Ens Seminis”

The Salamanders have the lighted Fire.

The Sylphs raise the vapours.

The Gnomes distil the “Ens Seminis” in the brain.

The creatures of the Water are conjured with a glass in the hand.

The creatures of the Air are ruled with the feather of a bird.

The creatures of the Earth are conjured with the staff or crosier.

The creatures of the Fire are conjured with the sword.

---

CHAPTER 34, ARCANUM NUMBER 12

Arcanum number 12 implies sacrifice; it is the card of the Apostolate; Suffering. This number is nonetheless a very complete number; it is the famous Dodecahedron upon which are sustained all of the universal creations of the Solar System which has 12 bases, 12 Planets.

Esoteric science teaches that there exist 7 principal planets:

MOON, MERCURY, VENUS, SUN, MARS, JUPITER, SATURN.

The above along with Uranus, Neptune and Pluto would total 10 planets, but esoteric science maintains that there are two planets beyond Pluto. Twelve Saviour planets have always been spoken of; the Master Jesus had 12 disciples, and in the Gnostic texts of the Pistis Sophia reference is made to 12 Saviours.

Arcanum 12 brings much suffering, many struggles. It has a very agreeable synthesis because 1 + 2 = 3 which means material as well as spir itual production.

Let us recall the marvellous union of the Cross with the Triangle: in Arcanum 12 we see a man who hangs suspended by one leg to indicate the fecund work in the Ninth Sphere without which the union of the Cross and the Triangle could not be attained. The Philosophical Gold could not be attained without that Union.

In the Age of Pisces there was a regressive, retarded asceticism, which detested and loathed sex. There still exists in the Caucasus the vestiges of a sect which mortally hates sex. Those who entered that sect had to castrate themselves with a red hot piece of metal;
the women had the labia minora of the vulva removed. That was the first phase; in the sec ond phase, the men had to amputate the phallus, and the women had a breast removed in a full religious ceremony; they drank the blood and ate the flesh and they were then laid on a bed of flowers. This is monstrous, abominable, you can see where the horror of sex leads this belongs to the Sphere of Lilith.

The kabalistic tradition says that Adam had two wives; Lilith, who is the mother of abortions, homosexuality and the hatred of sex, and the inverse, Nahemah who is the mother of malign beauty, of passion, of adultery, lust, and all that which is an abuse of sex. The Caucasian sect is of Lilith, it abhors the Third Logos, the Holy Spirit.

You see how the hatred of sex rejects the Philosophical Stone. This is absurd, yet nonetheless they believe that they are right. The authorities intervened in the matter of another sect where each year a man was crucified to death in memory of the great Master.
This type of barbarism is of the Age of Pisces.

The Age of Aquarius is governed by Uranus, which is the ruling planet of the sexual glands. We have to learn to use sex; the “sexual yearning” must be intelligently combined with “enthusiasm” and from this wise mixture results the revolutionary erotic intelligence of the Age of Aquarius.

The Age of Pisces is conservative, regressive, backward. We must leave the common union and pass to the Circle of Polarisation Man - Woman; it is necessary. When a man and a woman unite, something is created. In the ancient mysteries the “Genius Lucis of Sex” was created; in those times Sexual Magic was practised. There were collective unions; it was a different time due to the fact that they had not reached the level of de generation of today. For this reason the people used to pronounce the name of the Divinity in that moment of Genius Lucis.

The Lance of Longinus is the extraordinary emblem of the “Genius Lucis”; the Odic or magnetic force with which the animal ego is turned into cosmic dust. One must learn to utilise the Genius Lucis to eliminate the “I”. The Genius Lucis of man and woman can eliminate all of those enti ties which form the “I”, the “Myself”, because it is the weapon which enables the “ego” to be destroyed.

Krishnamurti has taught humanity to dissolve the ego, but the teaching is incipient because he believes that simply on the basis of comprehension the anger, jealousy etc., is eliminated. That is not possible. A power capable of eliminating the ego is needed, and that is the Serpentine Power, “Devi Kundalini” which does have the power to eliminate all of our psychological defects. Comprehension and elimination must be in balance.
Devi Kundalini can take up the lance, and she does so during the Sahaja Maithuna, she knows how to use the Genius Lucis.

Pray in the bed of the Garden of Delights; in the nuptial bed of erotic marvels. Suplicate in the moment of bliss, in the unforgettable moment of coitus. Beg our Divine and adorable Divine Mother Kundalini in those moments of tenderness and kissing to gloriously wield the Magic Lance in order to eliminate that defect which we have understood in all the departments of the mind. Later, we retire without spilling the sacred wine, the “Ens Seminis”. This means death, delight, rapture, joy, bliss...

This question of Death is something transcendental, it is realised in grades. When one attains an absolute Death in the mind, the transformation of the Initiates is astounding;
such death entails a Radical Death. This can be done in no other way than in the region of Mercury; and the element which can assist us is that “Genius Lucis” of man and of woman. It is Isis, Cibeles, Insoberta, or Shakti Kundalini who is able to lead us to that profound intellectual transformation.

Death is realised in the spheres of the different planets. The Angels work in the Astral world and are governed by the Moon. The Archangels develop under the rule of Mercury and their work is realised in the world of the Mind. They control the substances or essence of the Mental world and this they have attained in the Ninth Sphere from moment to moment.

In Venus, another work must be done; the Causal, Kingdom of the Principalities corresponds to this world. The virtues relate to the Intuitional Buddhi; are of the sphere of the Sun. The Potentates of Mars correspond to Atman, and then comes Jupiter with the Dominions. Saturn the highest, the most Divine and exalted of the 7 planets follows.
Beyond Saturn is the Paranirvanic world. Beyond the Empire the most elevated are the Seraphim. All of the Solar System is within ourselves.

    INITIATIC GRADE                    REGION                            PLANET
          Angels                     Astral World                         Moon
        Archangels                   Mental World                        Mercury
       Principalities                Causal World                         Venus
          Virtues                 Buddhic-Intuitional                      Sun
          Powers                     Atmic World                           Mars
        Dominions                   Nirvanic World                        Jupiter
         Thrones                  Paranirvanic World                      Saturn
        Cherubim                 Mahaparanirvanic World                   Uranus
         Seraphim                       Empire                           Neptune

In each one of these planets specific work must be done. How could we have the Will at the service of the Father if we have not worked in the Sphere of Venus.

First, we have to liberate ourselves from the planet Earth; attain the Second Birth.
Afterwards, we free ourselves from the Moon; the work related with the Moon. In Venus one is freed of ill-will; something really grandiose.

First, one must liberate oneself from the Solar System (Deuterocosmos), and later from the Galaxy (Macrocosmos). By means of transcendental works we enter into the Protocosmos. Despite the fact that it is within the Absolute, we have to liberate ourselves from the Protocosmos. The path is sexual; there is no other path.

The Age of Aquarius is the sign of Knowledge; everything is revolutionary.

                               Uranus = Lord of the Glands.
                                Uranas = Fire and Water.

Any school which does not teach the Sahaja-Maithuna is not Aquarian. Aquarius does not reject sex, it investigates it. A Mutant is a man in the broadest sense. There are no longer tabus in the Aquarian Era.

The psychology of the Aquarian Era with its five famous “M’s” (the Pancatattwa Ritual)
is revolutionary.

He who hates sex is as ridiculous as he who abuses it; he who is a drunk ard as ridiculous as he who will not have a drink. One must travel the middle way, not fall into extremes.

SYNTHESIS

The Alchemist has need of an Athanor (oven) so as to work in the Great Work. That Athanor is Woman.

He who wants to become an ineffable God must adore Woman.

I consider that it is impossible to Self- Realise without Woman.

It is impossible to be an Alchemist if one does not work with the Philosophical Stone.
That Blessed Stone has four names: Azoe, Inri, Adam, Eve.

The Sun-King is engendered within us by practicing Sexual Magic intensely with Woman.

Woman changes us into Ineffable Gods.

---

CHAPTER 35, ARCANUM NUMBER 13

This Arcanum, Death, covers two aspects: the first aspect is the death of all human beings and the second aspect is from the esoteric point of view.

In relation to the first aspect, all the texts of occultism, pseudo-occultism, pseudo-Rosicrucianism, and Theosophy state that one is born at a determined day, hour and second and dies at a determined day, hour and second according to the Law of Destiny.

This concept is not exact because the Lords of Karma deposit within one, determined “Cosmic Values”. One can conserve that “Capital” and the lifespan can be greatly increased, or the values can be spent and the life shortened.

In accumulating cosmic capital the life is prolonged. If there are no good deeds, it is only in particular cases that the Lords of Karma will prolong the life.

Within each one of our three brains the Lords of Karma deposit a determined quantity of Vital Values:

First Brain: thinking or intellectual, in the head.

Second Brain: motor, located in the upper part of the spinal column.

Third Brain: emotional, located in the solar plexus and sympathetic nervous centres.

If one exha usts the vital values of the thinking brain, abusing the intellect, it is clear that the death of this brain is provoked, or one contracts nervous illnesses, neurasthenia, madness, schizophrenia, or one provokes the forms of madness or mania which persons who have exhausted the values of the intellectual centre have.

If one exhausts the values of the emotional centre, one provokes illnesses of the heart, nervous and psychotic states, illnesses which are related with emotive or emotional aspects. Many artis ts exhaust the emotional brain and end up with particular psychopathic, emotional or cardiac conditions.

They who exhaust the values of the motor centre finish up paralysed, or with illnesses related with the muscles, the knees, the joints, paralysis, etc., damage to the spinal column.

In general, all illness results from the misuse of these three brains; what this means is that one dies by thirds, little by little. For example, foot ballers, runners, boxers are people who abuse the motor brain. These persons end up in a bad way, their death being due to misuse of the motor brain.

If one learns to manage the three brains in a balanced manner one saves the vital values which the Lords of Karma deposit, and life is prolonged. In Asia monasteries exist where the monks reach the age of 300 years or more because they harmoniously manage the three values in a balanced manner, saving the vital values of the three brains. So what then of the exact hour and date of birth and death?

If the values are exhausted one dies quickly, if they are saved, life is prolonged. Clearly, some are given more capital than others, depending upon the debts and credits of each one. When one believes that they have abused the thinking brain, one must put the motor brain to work. When one is doing these esoteric studies in order to prolong life one must negotiate with the Lords of Karma, but one must pay doing good deeds.

Each man who incarnates the Soul may ask for the Elixir of Long Life. This is a gas of immaculate whiteness. This gas is deposited in the vital base of the human organism.
After Resurrection the Master does not die again, is Eternal.

We have the case of Master Paracelsus; he has not died, lives in Europe with the same body, is one of those who “swallowed earth”, lived as a nomad, passing himself off as different persons.

Nicholas Flammel (the Initiate) lives in India with his wife Perenelle. He also “swallowed earth” together with his wife. Count Saint Germain who directs the ray of world politics worked in Europe in the XVI and XVIII centuries; Giovanni Papini met him a short while ago. The Christ Yogi of India, the immortal Babaji and his immortal sister Mataji have lived in their physical bodies for millions of years. The Immortals can appear and disappear instantaneously; can make themselves visible in the physical world at will.
Cagliostro, Saint Germain, Quetzalcoatl and many other immortals have done great works in the world.

Death is the crown of the Path of Life; this path is formed of the hoofprints of the Horse of Death.

The Egyptian “Book of the Dead” is for they who live and are dead one must know how to understand this; it concerns the deceased Initiates who, even though they are already dead, live. They have already en tered the Region of the Dead and appear in the light of day to give their teachings.

The first thing one must do in order to die is to dissolve the “I”, that which is a mass of demons, and whic h the Egyptians call the Red Demons of Set. This must be done in order to awaken consciousness and to receive direct knowledge. The Red Demons of Set are all the demons which we have; they are Satan. These must die. Horns must defeat those demons.

Set has two aspects: the negative form being Satan, and the positive cor responding to the spinal column. This tenebrous Satanic Set must be dead. That lunar ego, which is made

up of millions of demons which Horus must defeat with the assistance of the Divine Mother Isis, must die.

Those “I’s” must be reduced to dust, and one must incinerate the seeds and bathe in the waters of Lethe to forget and the waters of Eunoe to strengthen virtues and then ascend to the heavens. In order to ascend to each one of the heavens one must first descend to the Infernos. That is not all, tremendous battles come; this must be closely studied in the Pistis Sophia.

The Initiate must become a “Crocodile”; for this one must destroy the body of desire which is lunar and later ascend to the Lunar Heaven. To be able to destroy it one must submerge oneself, and this means a frightening descent through enormous sacrifice, leaving there the lunar body which disintegrates little by little. When the body of desire is disinte grated, the Initiate then leaves with his Solar Astral Body.

Then one must pass to Mercury, to the Decapitation, to free oneself of the lunar mind.
And the Initiate calls out begging for his head, the Head of Osiris, but he has to pass through much slaughter, has to do battle with the demons. Just as there are 8 Kabirs, there are also 8 Anti-Kabirs which are the antitheses; there being two in each cardinal point. It is the task of the Initiate to do battle with the 8 Black Kabirs; one cannot ascend without descending.

One cannot enter the Absolute and the Essence submerge in the Being before “passing through the Great Death”.

In the path to the Absolute one has to descend, it is there that one becomes a dead crocodile. Later the task is to ascend, and the ascent is extremely difficult. Once having submerged in the Being one can say: “I am Horus”, one can speak in the language of the Gods, can be the Living God in the sight of the Red Demons which make up the ego.

Card 13 contains the Gospel of Judas. Judas represents the Death of the Ego that is his Gospel. He played that part as he had been ordered to do so by the Great Master. Judas is now to be found working in the infernal worlds with the demons in order to redeem them and win over one or another of them. When his work concludes he will go with Jesus to the Absolute because he has well and truly earned it.

SYNTHESIS

One must become the Sacred Crocodile Sebek by means of enormous ordeals and great sacrifices.

In this matter efforts are not enough, super-efforts are needed.

We have to give form to ourselves; this requires super-efforts by means of constant daily intensive work.

“One must work to finish with the anger”.

The dead live in the sphere of Yetzirah, the dead live in the world of Nogah (the astral world.)

The deceased who have been fornicators are cold and tenebrous, live in the world of Assiah full of cold and darkness.

The disciples who have been chaste and who have awakened the Kundalini are after death, full of youth and of fire.

The hour 13 is intimately related with Death, there cannot be resurrection if there is no death. Liberation is the Thirteenth Hour of Apollonius.

The Twelve Doors of Mercy are the 12 zodiacal signs, 12 worlds or 12 suprasensible planes, the Door Number 13, the liberation, is for the escape to the Absolute.

One dies to the Cosmos. One is born to the Absolute.

One must die in order to live. One must die and resuscitate.

---

CHAPTER 36, ARCANUM NUMBER 14

The profound wisdom of Arcanum 14 is, classically, divided into 3 parts:

1: Transmutation of the Creative Energy.
2: Transformation.
3: Transubstantiation.

We are going to study each one of these three parts separately.

TRANSMUTATION

The mixture of the elixirs of man and woman; the Red and White, give origin to the “Elixir of Long Life”. We have the concrete case of Nicholas Flammel and his wife who now live physically, in India; they have the elixir of “Long Life”. Paracelsus today lives upon a mountain in Bohe mia in a temple in a state of Jinas. They who possess the “Elixir of Long Life” know how to live as “globetrotters”.

The great Master Sanat Kumara, founder of the College of Initiates of the White Lodge, lives in an oasis of the Gobi desert. His body is not of the Earth; he came in a cosmic ship in the epoch of Lemuria, he came from Venus. He is one of the four Shaddai, one of the four Thrones of the Kumaras. He is working, helping all of those who are upon the path, he assists intensely. He lives with a Lemurian Guru. Very ancient writings mention him;
they call him the “Great Immolated One”. He is now immortal.

This elixir of long life is a metaphysical, electrical substance. When one receives it, it is deposited in the vital body. Whoever receives this elixir has the right to live for 1,000 years but can extend this time. Thus, Sanat Kumara has already lived three million years.
The transmutation of the Sacred Fire is necessary for this elixir.

TRANSFORMATION

The second part of this Arcanum 14 refers to the transformation of the energies. One energy may be transformed into another; for example, hatred into love.

Many forms of transformation of energy exist. In esoteric wisdom it is known that the Initiate must transform himself into a bird, into a human-headed sparrowhawk when the “I” is dissolved. With the conscious ness free, transformed into birds, we enter into the World of the Dead in Life, we can fly over the seas, cross mountains.

We need to transform ourselves into Serpents of Wisdom, or “Naga”. We need to transform ourselves into crocodiles; if we wish to ascend we must first “submerge ourselves in the depths of the abyss” this is the Law. The Twice Born must transform themselves into true esoteric deceased of the Mystic Death. This is transcendental; one

may be an adept, but one will previously have had to descend and destroy the ego. In any other manner one becomes a Hanasmussen with a double centre of gravity.

A Hanasmussen is someone who has created the Solar Bodies, but has not passed through the Philosophical Death of the Masters, thus being polarised into an individual with a double centre of gravity. The result is two personalities; one angelic and the other demonic this is called a miscarriage of the Cosmic Mother, a failed plan. After having lived the whole drama of the Crucifixion, the Adept has to pass through the Ascension, just as Jesus did. This must be done through the Nine Worlds:

                      1. Moon; 2. Mercury; 3. Venus; 4. Sun; 5. Mars;
                         6. Jupiter; 7. Saturn; 8. Uranus; 9. Neptune.

After having lived the drama, for the dissolution of the ego one must pass through the planets. One is transformed into the crocodile Sebek for the purification and elimination of the different egos, because in order to ascend to the respective heavens one must descend to the atomic Infernos of each planet. The last two do not have Infernos.

The body of Desire, the Astral, is left in the Inferno of the Moon. In Mercury, the Cain, the mind is left, and one ascends to the heaven; and so on, successively. One must become a Seve n-Fold Crocodile in order to descend seven times, and ascend to the heavens.

This whole process is to free one from the laws of the Solar System. Later, one must liberate oneself from the laws of the Galaxy, then from the laws of the universes and be transformed into the most pure lotus flower; becoming a Cosmocrator, that is to say, a Creator-Lord of Universes; and finally to submerge and be absorbed into the bosom of the Absolute.

There exist transformations of an inferior nature. Circe transformed men into pigs. The legend tells that Apuleius became a donkey. If one places his physical body in the fourth dimension utilising the states of Jinas, one can assume any form, becoming a bird, a fish, or whatever one wishes. The physical body in the fourth dimension is elastic, and may be transformed into an animal. The Latin mantra for transformation are these:

“Est Sit, Esto, Fiat”.

It is only in the states of Jinas that we are able to transform ourselves.

TRANSUBSTANTIATION

The Last Supper of the Adorable Saviour of the World dates from ancient times. The Great Lord of Atlantis practised it also, as did Jesus Christ.

This is a ceremony of blood; a blood pact. Each one of the Apostles carried some of his blood in a vessel and then mixed it with the Royal Blood of the Adorable in the Chalice

of the Last Supper (the Holy Grail). In this way the astral bodies of the Apostles are united with the astral of Christ through the pact of Blood. The Apostles drank of the blood contained in the Chalice, Jesus also drank.

The Holy Gnostic Unction is united with the Last Supper by the blood pact. When the Christic atoms descend to the Bread and Wine, this be comes in fact, the Flesh and Blood of Christ. This is the mystery of the Transubstantiation.

The Bread and Wine, the Seed of the Wheat and the Fruit of the Vine must be regally transformed into the Flesh and the Blood of the Intimate Christ.

The Solar Logos, with its active and forceful life, causes the seed to germinate so that the wheat may grow, millimetre by millimetre. The Solar Logos is enclosed within the dark hardness of the grain as though within a precious coffer. The magical seed of the sacred wheat has its intimate exponent in the human seed.

The solar rays solemnly penetrating the stocks of life, develop and un fold quietly until reaching maturity in the sacrosanct fruit of the vine, which is really an emblem of life which manifests with all its splendour in substance.

The Gnostic Priest in a state of ecstasy, perceives that Cosmic substance of the Christ-Sun in the Bread and the Wine and acts to free it from its physical elements so that the “Christic Atoms” may victoriously penetrate into the human organisms.

When Jesus established the Gnostic School he broke the Bread and said to all: “Take and eat, for this is my body”. He distributed the Wine and said: “Take and drink, for this is my Blood. He who eats of my flesh and drinks of my Blood dwells in Me and I in him”.

During the Gnostic Ritual we communicate with the world of the Solar

Logos, with the Egyptian “Ra”, with Turn. This word is very important.

It has three aspects representing the three primary forces:

T — The Father.
U — The Son.
M — The Holy Spirit.

This is a powerful rnantrarn; it attracts the forces of the Logos towards us. In the instant in which the Bread and the Wine is consecrated, the “Christic Atoms” descend and are transformed in fact into the Flesh and Blood of Christ. This is achieved by means of a channel which is opened, and one communicates directly with the Logos through the Mantram.

Whilst in ecstasy with the Transubstantiation, the “Christic Atoms” of the highest voltage descend, giving us Light within the darkness. These Christonic Atoms assist us in the

struggle against the demons of Set. In this manner we make Light in the darkness; we are profound darkness. It is written that “The Light comes from the darkness”. The Gods arise from the abyss and are later lost in the Absolute. The abyss is then, indispensable for there to be Gods.

The Gods must know Good and Evil. The Abyss is a Cosmic Amphitheatre where Gods are forged. It is for this reason that one must descend in order to be able to ascend.

The Solar Christic Atoms, those igneous lives, those secret agents of the Adorable work silently within the Heart Temple; inviting us time and again to tread the path which must lead us to Nirvana. In any case, the mysterious aid of the Christic Atoms is manifestly clear.

And the light shines in the darkness and upon the Altar appear the twelve loaves of the pact, a clear allusion to the zodiacal signs or different modalities of cosmic substance.
This reminds us of Arcanum 12; the Magnus Opus, the union of the Cross with the Triangle.

With respect to the Wine which derives from the mature fruit of the vine, it is the marvellous symbol of Fire, of the blood of life which manifests in substance.

Although the words Wine, Life, and Vine [Spanish: Vino, Vida, Vid] have different origins, it is unquestionable that they retain certain symbolic affinities. Thus Wine [Vino]
relates to Vis “Fuerza and Virtus”, Moral Strength. So also with Virgo - “Virgin” - the Igneous Serpent of our Magical Powers.

The Sahaja Maithuna (Sexual Magic) between male and female, Adam-Eve, in the delightful bed of true love contains in truth, sublime rhythmic concordances with the mystic Agape of the Great Kabir Jesus.

To transform the bread (Seed) into Solar flesh and the exquisite wine into Christic Blood and Holy Fire, is the most extraordinary miracle of Sex-Yoga. The Body of Gold of the Solar Man, the famous “To Soma Heliakon” (complete synthesis of the Christic vehicles), is the flesh, blood and life of the Creator Logos or Demiurge.

The living secret crystallisation of the sexual energy into the resplendent form of that glorious body is only possible with amorous Magic.

Einstein, a great genius of the intellect, wrote a wise postulate which says to the letter:

“Mass is transformed into energy. Energy is transformed into mass.”

Ostensibly by means of the Sahaja Maithuna we can and must trans form the Ens Seminis into energy. To transform the Bread into Flesh and the Wine into Royal Blood into living and philosophical Fire is to real ise the miracle of the Transubstantiation.

We must sublimate our sexual energy to the heart. The Communion of the Bread and the Wine has the power to sublimate the sexual energy to the heart. We can place bread and a glass of wine next to our bed and after practicing the Arcanum A.Z.F., to work and to bless the bread and wine, then to eat the bread and drink the wine. Arcanum 14 converts the bread and wine into the Blood of Christ, with this Arcanum the bread and wine is charged with the Christic atoms which descend from the Central Sun.

SYNTHESIS

The Master who renounces Nirvana for love of humanity is confirmed as thrice honorable.

The Master who renounces Nirvana so as to remain in the physical plane must ask for the Elixir of Long Life.

---

CHAPTER 37, ARCANUM NUMBER 15

This Arcanum corresponds to Satan, of whom the Bible speaks; to Set in his negative aspect, spoken of by the Egyptians.

If we break the number 15 down kabalistically, we have 1 + 5 = 6. We already know that the six is in essence, sex, which means that sex is the greatest force which can liberate man, but is also the greatest force which may enslave him.

Let us remember the “Constellation of Orion” of the Egyptians; it is evident that this constellation is governed by 12 Great Masters. Esoterically it is said that those 12 Masters assist each other, but the 6th is always missing, meaning that “In order to attain SeIf-Realisation it is necessary to rend the veil of Isis” or, that is, the Adamic Sexual Veil.

Only in liberating oneself from sex in an absolute manner can one reach final liberation.
The difficulty in all of this is, as the saying goes: “want ing to saddle the horse before you’ve caught it”. That is to say, the infor mation given by all of those schools who say that one must liberate one self from sex, but without having fabricated the Solar Bodies.

Firstly, the Solar Bodies must be fabricated, and then sex must be renounced. That is the right way of things, and the things of the right way. In the work, first it is the animal, and later, the spiritual.

The constellation of Orion has a marked influence upon the atomic star which guides us internally which is Ain Soph Paranishpanna, our intimate star. As one Master said: “I raise my eyes to the stars from whence must come my help, but I am always guided by my Star which I have within”.

Arcanum 15 of the Tarot is the “pluralised I”, esoterically it is called Satan.

The sign of the Infinite is very important; to it correspond 8 Kabirs who govern all of creation, all of nature. They are the rectors of universal life who govern our planet Earth.
They have however, their antitheses who are the 8 Hierarchs of the Black Lodge, that is, the 8 Anti-kabirs. There are 2 in the Orient, 2 in the Occident, 2 in the North, and 2 in the South. We mention them because they pertain to Arcanum 15, to the Typhoon Baphomet, to Satan. The esoterist must know how to defend himself from those eight Kabirs. For this reason there are the Conjurations and all of the esoterism of High Magic.

They who work in High Magic need to protect themselves with the Magic Circle, know how to use the Sacred Viper from which the tenebrous flee. The ancient Egyptians projected it from the heart. One must know to invoke “Ra” to defend oneself from the 8 Anti-kabirs of the Black Lodge, because in the same way that there exist crystallisations

of Adepts of the White Lodge, there exist also Adepts of the Black Lodge, of the Left Hand, with all their powers.

This class of tenebrous Adepts crystallise through Black Tantrism, in which exists the same connection of Lingam- Yoni, but with the spilling of the Ens-Seminis. The 8 Anti-kabirs are the 8 crystallisations of the H SI-12 of the Ens-Seminis in its negative, fatal form.

It is said that when the Adept wins the battle he takes refuge in the Eye of Horus and is covered by the Triple Veil, being protected from the Red Demons of Set. He becomes invisible to the Red Demons and they can do nothing to harm him. Clearly, this is none other than the pluralised “I” of each person which is a legion of demons. There is no doubt that all of these devils are living personificatio ns of our own errors and psycho logical defects.

It is good to know that the most difficult of these demons to overcome is the lust. This is the principal defect which is represented in Arcanum 15 of the Tarot by sexual passion or lust.

Arcanum number 15 represents “Passion” because this has its basis in the Modis Operandi of the Luciferic Fire, it constitutes the functionalism of that fire.

In synthesis there exist two great Fires: the Sacred Fire of Kundalini which ascends through the spinal column, and the Kundartiguador which de scends, which plunges to the Infernos.

The Kundalini is the Serpent of bronze which cured the Israelites, which Moses raised upon the staff. The Kundartiguador Fire is the Tempting Serpent of Eden which descends to the Atomic Infernos of Man. In the wisdom of Egypt the tempting Serpent has the name of “Apep”. In the rituals of ancient Egypt a representation was made in wax with the head pointing downwards, and in this mariner it was exorcised, conjured.

The Initiate has to struggle frightfully against this tempting Serpent, against this horrible Apep; the struggle is to the death.

The negative fire of Apep is the negative aspect of the Prakriti, that is, Kali who assumes the aspect of a horrible viper which slithers through the mud (see the life of Krishna). If we want to defeat it in the Cosmos, we have to defeat it within ourselves.

The living basis of the animal passion is in that Luciferic Fire of the serpent Apep. The crystalisation of that negative Luciferic Fohat (fire) is personified in those Red Demons, in that pluralised “I”. It is in the Sexual Luciferic Fire where the Red Demons of Set are to be found.

If we want to dissolve the “I” we have to begin by destroying the lust. If the fish of the sea are deprived of water, they die. If we take the Luciferic

Fire away from our “I’s”, these I’s die. We have to put an end to the nutrition from which they live,

The Atomic Infernos of Man are a reality. Wars are won in the battle field, we have to overcome the Red Demons. Arcanum 15 signifies the work with the demon by means of the Phallus-Osiris and the Uterus-Isis, of which Satan or Set has taken control. The Phallus of the Gods is of pure Gold. It is necessary to eradicate all of that which has the taste of animal passion.

In the ancient mysteries of the Gnostic-Rosicrucian illuminates there was a ceremony of Initiation. The neophyte being submitted to the test was led blindfolded to a particular place. The most interesting aspect was that when the blindfold was removed, they were in a lighted room; all found themselves in the centre surrounding a He-Goat. Upon its forehead between its two huge horns shone the Pentalpha. The Neo phyte was ordered to go and kiss the hindquarters of the Devil, or perhaps the tail. On going around the animal he met with a beautiful lady who bid him welcome, who embraced him and kissed him upon the forehead. Then, he had triumphed. If however, the Neophyte resisted, he had then failed and was taken from the precinct without having known the secret.

The lady who kissed him represented Isis, the Divine Mother, and she kissed him upon the brow as if to say to him; “the hour has arrived for you to work with the Sacred Serpent”. To become Gods, the fire must be stolen from the Devil, from the He-Goat by means of the transmutation of the base metals into gold. This is the mystery of the Alchemy; that He Goat must be eliminated. Each defect must be changed, killed, and a virtue born. Hence the motive of the phrase “Solve et Coagula”. The Gods arise from the abyss and are lost in the Absolute.

The power of the Magician is carried within the sexual organs, because therein is the Laboratorium Oratorium of the Third Logos.

SYNTHESIS

There exist millions of Black Lodges in the world of Assiah.

The most dangerous black magicians in the universe exist in the Mental World.

Every occultist who recommends seminal ejaculation is a black magician.

Every fornicator is a black magician. Every group of fornicators makes up a Black Lodge.

Our disciples must learn to conjure the tenebrous in order to make them flee in fright.
Make use of the Conjurations of the Four and the Seven.

The tenebrous must be conjured with the Sword.

---

CHAPTER 38, ARCANUM NUMBER 16

This Arcanum is the Fulminated Tower, in the Kabalah it is known as the Tower of Babel of which the Bible speaks. From this tower can be seen the fall of the Initiate, forming the inverted Pentagram.

The sacred symbol of the Infinite represents the brain, heart, and sex. If sex dominates the brain, then this brings about the fall, the Fulminated Tower, the inverted five-pointed star, the Pentagram reversed, the man with his head pointing downwards and his feet upwards.
He hurtles to the depths of the abyss. We should recall that sacred pronouncement:

The Infinite is equal to the Pentalpha.

A careful analysis of Arcanum 16 invites us to reflect Who are they who fall? It is they who spill the Vessel of Hermes. It was for that reason that Krumm Heller said: “The glass must be raised high”. He was referring to the “Sacred Wine”. In ancient times, in Lemurial attained the Elixir of Long Life. This has its basis in the primordial substance which is able to renew life. It is the “Nectar of the Gods”, that which Paracelsus called the Ens Seminis where one finds the Ens Virtutis.

In the continent of “Mu” or Lernuria which was located in the immense Pacific ocean, the White Brotherhood conceded me the marvellous Elixir, the “Gift of Cupid” with which one can conserve the physical body for millions of years. I was able to conserve my physical body over thou sands of years in Atlantis, I was an Immortal. With the beginning of the first Aryan sub-race the same thing happened to me as happened to Count Zanoni who, because of falling in love with a chorus girl from Naples, had his immortal body taken from him. It was in this manner that I continued to reincarnate in different bodies, up until now when I have ascended once again.

One must reach a transformation through Nu, the Divine Mother, with whose help we can eliminate that whole mass of tenebrous entities, the Satan... “Nu” is able, in a definitive manner, to radically transform us. It is necessary that a complete change be effected; that our head, our face be of “Ra” and our body, hands and legs be of “Turn”.

“Ra” is the Father. “Tum” is the Body of the Father.

Tum is a terribly divine mantram, it must never be pronounced in vain nor in jest because Our Father who is in Secret immediately descends from wherever He may be.

We must become labourers in the Great Work of the Father. “Ra” is the Christ, is life, the Second Logos. Tum is the Father, the First Logos. On pronouncing his name there is fire and He descends. They are mantra of immense magical, priestly power.

We can only attain the Incarnation of the Father when we have devel oped the Seven Grades of the Power of Fire. Clearly, if the Initiate violates his vows of chastity, he falls.
If we kabalistically add the numbers of Arcanum 16 it gives: 1 + 6 = 7 the Seven Grades of the Power of Fire, the “Seven Steps of the Mind”. If the Initiate falls, he is fulminated by Arcanum 16 and tumbles down those steps. In occult science it is said that he is left without INRI (Ignis, Natura, Renovatur, Integra); has failed. This is then, the Fulminated Tower. Of those who are left without INRI there are they who fall from the Tower. The victorious, they who achieve the Second Birth, enter the Order of Meichizedek, the Order of Keb, the Genie of the Earth.

In order for the lunar bodies to remain in Amenti one must die, die and die. It is only with death that the new comes.

The authentic deceased Initiates are they who have killed the “I”, have taken possession of the Two Earths, and may enter at will into Amenti, or at will, here. It is for this reason that it is said that one has become King and Priest of the Earth according to the Order of Melchizedek. It is clear that if they allow themselves to fall, they lose the sceptre of com mand and hurtle downwards from the Tower. Upon the esoteric Path everyone has to struggle; the Twice-Born also. There are Initiates whose passage is blocked, due to the fact that the battle is very hard. The higher one is the harder and further one falls.

One must be careful of the type of nourishment that the mind receives, such as that of the press, television and films. Transmute the oral and mental sperm with sepulchral offerings; that is to say, not to feed the mind with refuse because the carrion of the mind is useless: bad litera hire, bad films, bad television, bad words. It must not be forgotten that we have a terrible she-devil, “Kali”, which is the abominable Kundartiguador organ, the terrifying Serpent, “Apopi”. People are victims of Kali, the Tempting Serpent of which the Hindus speak.

The Initiate who permits himself to fall loses the Crown and the Sword.

The pineal, the Sahasrara Chakra is the Crown. The Sword is the Flam ing Sword which one must place at the feet of Osiris.

To he who is victorious the four secret, occult pillars are given. One thus acquires power over the four regions of the Cosmos:

1. Life.
2. Submerged Mineral Region.
3. Molecular Region.
4. Electronic Region, or Spiritual World.

In studying esoterism more deeply, we find that the eyebrow centre, the Third Eye, the centre of clairvoyance, is the Eye of Horns. This is of itself, the Intimus, our Divine Being who is in the arnis of our Divine Mother. The Falcon is the symbol of Horus. With the total death in ourselves the Golden Falcon gives strength to Horus (which is

pronounced Aurus). This is related to the Rising Sun. One must put oneself in contact with the Spiritual Sun.

We need to strengthen Horns. We have the right to ask that He strengthen our three brains:

Intellectual.
Emotional.
Motor.

For the battle we need that the three brains be strong.

SYNTHESIS

When the Astral Light coagulates in a flower, we find ourselves in love with that flower.
If the Astral Light accumulates in a woman, we fall in love with that woman.

He who lives bewitched by different women becomes nothing other than a weak little bird fulminated by the bewitching eyes of the Temptress of the Astral Light.

The sorceresses of the Astral Light are dangerous.

“Wretched the Samson of the Kabalah who allows himself to be dominated by Delilah.
The Hercules of the science who exchanges his sceptre of power for the spindle of Omphale will soon feel the venge ance of Deainira and there will remain no other remedy than the pyre of Mount Oeta so as to escape the devouring torments of the Tunic of Nessus”.

---

CHAPTER 39, ARCANUM NUMBER 17

The Eight-pointed star of this Arcanum represents Venus, the Evening Star. We find represented in this Arcanum the work with the Gold and the Silver, with the Sun and with the Moon. The ancient alchemists said that the Moon had to be transformed into the Sun.
One must know how to understand this; with this was intended: “to abandon the Lunar Path and follow the Solar Path.”

People are “lunar”; the Moon brings them and the Moon takes them. Let us analyse this detail: the first seven years of the life of childhood are Lunar; they are brought by the Moon. The second septenary; the years from 7 to 14 are Mercurian, the child moves this way and that, goes to school; he needs to move.

The third septenary is from 14 to 21 years and is Venusian. The pang is felt and there are love interests. It is obvious that at 14 years of age the sexual glands enter into activity and their influence manifests in the human being.

From 21 to 42 years there are 3 septenaries (the 4th , 5th , and 6th ) or 3 Solar periods. This is the struggle to gain our place in life. In that period (21-42) exactly that manifests, which one is.

The seventh septenary is from 42 to 49 years and is Martian. There are struggles, it is a decisive epoch for each one. The eighth septenary is from 49 to 56 years. This is the influence of Jupiter in the human being. In that period for those who have good karma things go well economically; for those who do not, things go badly.

In the ninth septenary from 56 to 63 years, old Saturn enters, age comes to the human being. It is a Saturnian period ruled by the Ancient of the Heavens; the person may presume himself to be whatever he wishes.

After the age of 63 years we enter old age; the Lunar influence comes once again. The Moon brings one and the Moon takes one.

If the life of the human being is examined, it is seen that everything is ruled by the Moon, and when one enters into the infernal worlds, one enters via the doorway of the Moon.
The important thing is to transform the Moon into Sun, and to attain this, one must work with the Gold and the Silver. Without Alchemy this Arcanum could not be understood;
the most important thing is to transmute the Lead into Gold, that is the work which must be realised in the Forge of Cyclops.

The vital part of this Arcanum 17 is in the Venustic Initiation, it is the highest part of this Arcanum and is represented by the eight-pointed star of Venus. If we carefully observe the symbol of Venus we find:

THE CIRCLE; THE SPIRIT.

THE CROSS; SEX UNDER THE CONTROL OF THE SPIRIT.

THE INVERSE OF THE SIGN REPRESENTS THE SPIRIT DOMINATED BY SEX.

It happens that on Earth sex has dominated the Spir it.

Venus, the Dawn Star, in its positive aspect is very grand, is marvellous, is the Venustic Initiation. In its negative part however, we find the Luciferic aspect.

The ideal moment for astral projection is that of the dawn, the hour of Venus. If one is however, not at a very pure level, the Luciferic currents pull on one. Remember Venus-Lucifer which has two aspects, just as there is the Sacred Fire which rises, Kundalini, there is the fire which descends, Kundartiguador.

All of the work with the Alchemy is to attain the Venustic Initiation. This really is something very difficult.

We have the case of Madame Blavatsky who married Count Blavatsky. After two months of marriage she was separated from him without having had a sexual relationship with him. She travelled to India and was in Shangri- La, her mission was grandiose, she wrote the “Secret Doctrine”. She ends volume VI inviting those who read it to practice the Alchemy; without it one cannot attain the Self- Realisation. She was already mature when she married Colonel Olscott, this marriage was not motivated by passion; the reason is to be found in the internal worlds, and she fabricated the Solar Bodies.

Madame Blavatsky is a Lady Adept who realised the Great Work, she did not however attain the Venustic Initiation because for this she would have needed to have the body of a man. The Christ incarnates solely in a male body. [ed: the author refers further to this matter in his book “Pistis Sophia Unveiled”, chapter 10, in his commentary on “The Third Vesture”]

For this reason she is preparing to take the body of a man because she is going to be born in the U.S.A. She has been given encouragement not to lose heart because to renounce the Great Nirvana and have to return to this world is not an agreeable thing.

Sex is needed to attain the Venustic Initiation because there are Seven Serpents of Fire which correspond to the Seven Bodies: the Physical, Etheric, Astral, Mental, Causal, Buddhic, and that of the Intimus, the Atmic. A Serpent corresponds to each one, there being in total 7 Serpents; two groups of three with the sublime coronation which unites us with the Father, with the Law.

He who wishes to attain the Venustic Initiation must raise the Seven Ser pents of Light.
The first to be raised is that of the physical body in order to receive the first Venustic Initiation, then that of the vital body which corre sponds to the second Venustic Initiation, and so on successively.

The Incarnation of the Christ begins with the Venustic Initiation and is experienced in two forms. First in symbolic form, and after having developed all which is given in the Initiations, it is lived. This is the crude reality to practice what is preached; it is an arduous work.

Christ is the Master of Masters. It is erroneous of people to believe that Jesus is the only Christ. Hermes, Quetzalcoatl, Fu-Ji, Krishna, etc., also in carnated the Christ. This incarnated-one must do as he preaches, and this he does. Being God he becomes Man, has to fight against his own passions, against all. Gold is tested with fire and is always victorious. He incarnates, becomes Man when necessary, and he does it with the objective of changing the world. He is the Being of our Being, in him we are all One; He, He, He, He, submerges in the Father and He in turn, in Him.

He who incarnates the Christ passes the test and goes far beyond Nir vana, to the worlds of superlative happiness and joy.

Only the valiant enter this Path. If one does not know how to hold onto the Father with force, and to the Mother with soul, life and heart, one does not reach the goal, one fails.

One must hold onto one’s Father and one’s Mother, “developing love”. If one does not have love, then how will one be able to seek solace one’s parents?

In this world of today there is no Rosicrucian school, the single and authentic one being in the internal worlds. I was submitted to a test in the Rosicrucian monastery, it was the test of patience. One is intention ally given the test of patience.

SYNTHESIS

The highest aim is to attain the Venustic Initiation; this is Arcanum number “1”, the incarnation of the Christ.

The Christ does not have individuality, nor personality, nor “I”. He is true Instructor, the supreme “Great Master”, the Master of Masters.

The Lamb of God is Christ, he washes away the sins of the world, butfor this he must work.

He is the true Instructor of the World.

In Egypt, Christ was Qsirjs; he who incarnated Him was a new Osirified One, and he had to sacrifice Himself for all of humanity.

One must know how to be patient.

One must know how to be serene.

---

CHAPTER 40, ARCANUM NUMBER 18

Arcanum 18 added kabalistically is 1 + 8 = 9, the Ninth Sphere, sex.

Esoteric traditions affirm that the Earth has 9 strata or subterranean regio ns; clearly in the ninth stratum is that which we could call the planetary nucleus, which is of an extraordinary density. The kabalists say that the sign of the Infinite is in the centre of the Earth; it is obvious thatwithin the heart of the Earth its vit al energies circulate.

It is for this reason that the kabalists affirm that in the centre of the Earth one finds the brain, heart and sex of the Genie of the Earth, which is the Planetary Genie. The organisation of all creatures is constructed upon that model; that is to say, within us also.
The struggle is terrible, brain against sex, sex against brain, and that which is worst of all, heart against heart.

The Pentagram with the apex pointing upwards is Man; if sex wins the battle, then the Pentagram is inverted with the apex pointing down wards, bringing about the Fall of the Fulminated Tower of Arcanum 16.

In sex exists the greatest force which can liberate or enslave man. The descent to the Ninth Sphere was from ancient times the greatest test of the supreme dignity of the Hierophant. All of the classics speak of the descent of Aeneas to the Ninth Sphere, to the Tartarus of the Greeks. In the Aeneid (book VI) the Sibyl of Cumae cautioned him about the de scent to Avernus: “Sprung from the blood of Gods, Trojan Anchises’ son, easy the road down to Avernus; night and day the door of gloomy Dis stands open; but thy steps back to retrace, emerge to upper air, this is the task, the labour this. Some few favoured and loved of Jupiter, or borne by their own glowing virtue to the sky, sons of the Gods, attained it”...

The kabalists speak of Adam Protoplastos, who by means of the transmutation of the creative energies, becomes something distinct, different. The kabalistic traditions tell us that Adam had two wive s, Lilith and Nahemah. The first it is said, is the mother of abortions, homosexuality, of sexual degeneration; and the second is the mother of adultery, fornication, etc.

Lilith and Nahemali are the two aspects of infrasexuality, those two women correspond to the submerged, mineral, infradimensional spheres within the very interior of the planet Earth.

In any case, the Greek Tartarus, Avernus, are symbols for the submerged mineral kingdom. Life exists in everything; we live in the element of air and yet this element is invisible to us, just as for fish, water is invisible. I can assure you that there is life in the rock, that living beings exist there and that that element is invisible to them. They are not

beings of flesh and blood, they are subtle, lost, degenerated elements who are in forms of involution.

Aeneas met his Father, met the beautiful Helen. Dante, in his “Divine Comedy”, met with multitudes of beings; the 9 circles of Dante ha ve a relationship with the nine spheres in the submerged mineral element.

It becomes necessary to descend to our own Atomic Infernos to work with the Fire and Water, origin of worlds, beasts and men. In all of the pseudo-esoteric schools, arising, ascending to the Superior worlds is spoken of, but it occurs to no-one to descend. The serious thing is that to every exaltation corresponds a humiliation.

In the sphere of Lilith we find those who prefer abortions, and people who use the contraceptive pill, who do not want to have children, and the result is obvious. In the sphere of Nahemah we find they who are fascinated by sex, men who are terrible fornicators, women who are given to adultery, pride, vanity, who divorce and marry again. The kabalistic traditions say that when a man abandons his wife to marry another, his forehead remains marked with a Luciferic Fire. The kabalists affirm that when a woman marries a man who does not belong to her, on the day of the wedding she appears “bald “, and she unconsciously covers her head excessively.

“Without transmutation no-one can Self-Realise.”

The Ninth Sphere is repeated twice in Arcanum 18, this leaves us with a lot to think about. The first nine is positive, and the second nine is nega tive; thus Arcanum 18 shows the fatal or negative aspect of the Ninth Sphere. This aspect is in the spheres of Lilith and Nahemah.

It is obvious that the infernal worlds are infrasexual. Clearly, infrasexuality reigns supreme amongst humanity some being in the sphere of Lilith, others in that of Nahemah.

When one tries to work in the Ninth Sphere one is immediately attacked by the Red Demons; they work to deviate us from the Path of the Razor’s Edge. It is clear that within the Magistery of Fire there exist many dangers, both within and without.

When the Igneous Serpent or Kundalini ascends via the spinal column the advance is slow; it is realised very slowly, vertebra by vertebra. Each vertebra represents determined Virtues corresponding to an esoteric grade. One never achieves the ascent in a particular vertebra without having first fulfilled the conditions of sanctity required for that vertebra.
The 33 vertebraes correspond to the 33 Grades of Occult Magic, the 33 Grades of the Master Mason, to the 33 years of Jesus. To each vertebra corresponds tests, the Ascension being realised “in accordance with the merits of the heart”. They who believe that the Kundalini, once awak ened, rises instantaneously to the head so that we remain totally illuminated, really are ignorant people.

The Sacred Fire has Seven Grades of Power; these must be developed in order to be able to Self-Realise.

In this present reincarnation when I was struggling for the Fourth Grade of the Power of Fire, and had still not dissolved the ego, I saw on the screen of a cinema the image of an erotic couple. That night in the world of the mind I was submitted to a test in which the couple upon the screen repeated the same scene. The aforementioned scene was reproduced by my mind and seemed to have life, movement. I came out of the test. When I left the world of the mind and passed to the astral world I was harshly recriminated, and I was warned that if I returned to those places (cinemas) I would lose the Sword; that it would be better if I were to study my past lives in the Akashic Records.

The atmosphere in cinemas is tenebrous; there are millions of larvae created by the minds of those who go there, and then later come the nocturnal pollutions. This is Arcanum 18;
the Darkness.

The Divine Comedy speaks of the dog Cerberus, which is sex and which must be taken from Tartarus to the Sun. This is the ascension of the sexual forces in us; one must cause them to rise and eliminate the “I”. This is basic for the Intimate Self-Realisation of the Being. It is the struggle between the Light and Darkness in Arcanum 18.

This terrible struggle is affirmed in the 3 Tantric schools which are dedicated to sex.

1. White Tantrism: connection of the Lingam-Yoni without ejaculation of the Ens Seminis. This brings about in us the ascent of Kundalini and Self- Realisation.

2. Black Tantrism: during the Maithuna there is ejaculation of the Ens Seminis so as to develop the Kundartiguador organ.

3. Grey Tant rism: To work at times with ejaculation, and at other times not, working solely for the enjoyment of sexual pleasure, with however, the imminent danger of falling into Black Tantrism.

So on reaching Arcanum 18 we find ourselves before the dilemma of Being or not Being.

No-one can Self- Realise without the practice of Maithuna. One must awaken
consciousness because without it one abandons the Path, since one is not serious,

Previously, the secret of the Arcanum A.Z.F. was not given to anyone who had not awakened consciousness in order that they should not abandon the Path.

SYNTHESIS

He who defeats Satan in sex defeats him in all aspects.

To free the dog Cerberus means to liberate the sexual energy, to use it in a transcendental form.

The eyes are the windows of the soul. The man who allows himself to catch the eye of all the women will have to resign himself to living within the abyss.

There are women who practice witchcraft on men. Those victims should defend themselves incessantly with the conjurations of the Four and the Seven,

We can defend ourselves from witchcraft by invoking our elemental intercessor, which we call upon with all our heart upon going to bed.

---

CHAPTER 41, ARCANUM NUMBER 19

This is the Arcanum of the Affiance or of Victory. In previous lessons we have already spoken about the Salt of Alchemy which is the physical body, the Mercury which is the Ens Serninis within which is the Fire, the Fohat, the Kundalini. The Mercury must be transformed into Sulphur, the Serpentine Fire which is a result of the transmutation.
These 3 are the passive instruments of the Magnum Opus.

We have to seek the positive principle, the Inner Magnus of Paracelsus, the magical principle. When the 3 elements, Salt, Mercury, and Sulphur are found without the work they are negative elements; working however in the Magnum Opus, they become positive. This is the magical principle or Inner Magnus.

Arcanum 19 establishes a great Affiance between man and woman, an Alliance so as to realise the Great Work.

This great Alliance has many aspects. The Gospel speaks of the need for wedding clothes. I not forget the wedding at which someone did not wear wedding clothes, and they bound him and the King ordered that he be cast into the darkness where only the gnashing of teeth is heard. (Matthew 22: 1-14). This famous clothing is the Egyptian Sahu, or the To Soma Heliakon in Latin, that is, the body of Gold of the Solar Man, the wedding clothes in which to attend the banquet of the Easter Lamb, so it is thatwe need to have an understanding that in order to have that body, the great Alliance is needed, the work in the Ninth Sphere between man and woman.

Just as below we must have a Great Alliance to attain illumination, above, another Great Alliance is needed.

Divine Spirit — Atman.
Human Soul — Manas
Spiritual Soul — Buddhi

The two Souls must be fused; the masculine Human Soul with the feminine Spiritual Soul. This is not achieved without having eliminated the “I” and with out having eliminated the Body of Desires. The two Souls must be One.

This is the great Alliance between the medieval knight and lady; we find this in the books of chivalry, “El Romancero”, ballads, Count Roland, the wandering troubadours. The knight who fights for his lady is the Human Soul, the lady is the Spiritual Soul. The knight must fight for his lady, if he does not do so he remains without her.

To attain total illumination, the knight must totally integrate with his lady and fight for her in every moment until the 1,000 petalled Lotus is developed. in the Great Matrimony or Alchemical Wedding of Manas-Buddhi, the Budcthi gives the illumination, without

which one cannot have the complete development of the thousand-petalled Sahasrara Chakra.

With matrimony a spark is produced, and illumination follows; this is the result of the Great Affiance. That Divine Spark in the pineal gland gives illuminated intuition along with Polyvision. This is the total triumph.

Illuminated Intuition is superior to clairvoyance. The Spiritual Sun is what counts. The Midnight Sun guides and orients us. “One must await every thing from the Occident, await nothing from the Orient.” The Sun Sirius is the central sun, the gravitational point of the Milky Way.

The goal of our studies is to enter the Absolute. To aftain this we must free ourselves of all of the laws of the Seven Cosmos which rule us.

With the Alliance we are freed from:

The 96 laws of the Abyss (Tritocosmos)
The 48 laws of Man (Microcosmos)
The 24 laws of the Earth (Mesocosmos)
The 12 laws of the Solar System (Deuterocosmos)
The 6 laws of the Galaxy (Macrocosmos)
The 3 laws of the Firmament (Ayocosmos)
The 1 law of the Solar Absolute (Protocosmos)
...and we enter the Absolute.

The arrival at the Absolute is stre with renunciations and death. The Omnipotence and even the Omniscience must be renounced so as to enter the Ab solute.

SYNTHESIS

The Philosophical Stone is the semen.

He who practices Sexual Magic daily is working with the Philosophical Stone.

A good woman is all we really need in order to work with the Philosophical Stone.

---

CHAPTER 42, ARCANUM NUMBER 20

The hieroglyph of this Arcanum is the Resurrection of the Dead. It is necessary that we carefully consider the aspect of the Resurrection, which has many phases, many aspects.
Above all, for there to be Resurrection there must be Death, without it, there is no Resurrection. It is necessary to understand that from death comes life; Death is the Crown of all. The Path of Life is formed by the hoofprints of the Horse of Death.

Everything in life is subject to death; in everything exists something of mortality and something of immortality. I want to say to you that mortality and immortality is very relative; even God Himself who is immortal is, however, in the long run, mortal.

It is necessary to analyse what one understands by God: God is the “Army of the Voice”, is the “Great Word”. Saint John surely said: “In the begin ning was the Word, and the Word was with God and the Word was God.”

God is the Voice of the Elohim, is the Choir of Masters who initiate the Mahamanvantara (the Cosmic day); that is God. When the night of Pralaya (the Cosmic night) comes, He ceases to exist for the universe. They die to the universe and are born to the Absolute. For this reason it can be said that God also dies. After the Cosmic night, in the new dawning of the Cosmic day, He arises once again from within the Absolute.

Now we will place our attention upon the constitution of man. To be a Man in the most complete sense of the word it is necessary to have or possess the Solar Bodies. We have already spoken a lot about the Egyp tian Sahu, which is the same as the wedding clothes of the parable of the man who sat at the table of the Lord without wedding clothes, and whom the master ordered be cast into the darkness; just as neither we, without wedding clothes or the Solar Bodies, can enter the Kingdom of Heaven. It is logical that he who does not possess the Solar Bodies, is clothed in the lunar bodies which are cold, spectral, diabolic, tenebrous.

A man clothed in the lunar bodies is not a Man; he is an intellectual animal, which is a higher type of animal. The error of humanity is to believe that they are already Men, which they are not. Let’s recall the story of Diogenes who with his lantern, sought a Man, but could not find him. Only such as Kout Houmi, Master Moria, Saint Germain etc, are men; that which abounds here is the intellectual animal.

The first thing which must be fabricated in the Forge of Cyclops is the true Astral Body, thus making us immortal in the world of 24 laws. Fol lowing this we need to fabricate the Solar Mental ruled by 12 laws. He who fabricates it is immortal in the world of 12 laws.
Following this we have to fabricate the Body of Conscious Will, and one becomes immortal in the world of 6 laws.

He who fabricates his Solar Bodies needs to pass through various deaths. We need the Solar Adam to be born in us, the Abel of the Bible. To be come immortal one needs to possess the Solar Bodies.

If we wish to free ourselves, or place ourselves upon the Path of the Razor’s Edge, the way of revolution of the consciousness, we must de scend to the Ninth Sphere of Nature.
This has nothing to do with what has gone before. To descend to the Ninth Sphere is to enter into revolu tion; to revolt against the cosmos, against nature, against everything;
and it is in this manner that we fabricate the Solar Bodies and incarnate the Real Being;
we become a “Twice-Born”.

“In truth, in truth I say unto you, if you are not born again you will not be able to enter the Kingdom of the Heavens.” The Celestial Adam is dressed with the Solar Bodies, must pass through various deaths, must kill the “I”.

From the past we bring that multitude of “I’s”. There does not exist authentic individuality within the human being, and these I’s personify laziness, gluttony, lust, anger, etc., etc. That ego which is dressed with the lunar bodies is the lunar Adam; he of sin. We need the Solar Adam to be born within us.

The Twice-Born find themselves before two Paths: that of the Right, and that of the Left.
He who decides to dissolve the ego takes the Right path so as to become an Ineffable Being. They who decide against dissolving the ego take the way of the Left and become diabolic beings (a Hanasmussen is a miscarriage of the Cosmic Mother). This is not every thing however; the seeds of the I’s must be destroyed, one must bathe in the waters of Lethe so as to forget all of the evilness of the ego, and afterwards in the waters of Eunoe to strengthen the Virtues and be con firmed in the Light.

Up to this point all of the work corresponds to the planet Earth; innocence has been attained here. There remain, however the outer shells of the lunar bodies, and these must be destroyed in the Lunar Infernos.

The demon Apopi or the “Body of Desire”, which retains the sexual de sire and everything of that nature, must be destroyed. This Apopi is a terribly perverse demon and one destroys him in the Lunar Infernos before ascending to the Lunar Heaven.

Later on, the work continues in the planet Mercury where the “Animal Mind” or demon Hai must be destroyed. This is the diabolic animal mind. This vehicle is none other than a demon and one must go to the Atomic Infernos of Mercury in order to destroy it.

The death of the demon Apopi, the terrible monster of cravings, calls for tremendous super-efforts, super- works. Only in this manner does one bring about the destruction of the demon Apopi and the demon Hai.

The Adam of sin must die. To resuscitate in the heart of Osiris it is necessary that all we have that is earthly, animal, should die. He who has fabricated the Solar Bodies no longer

needs to carry that burden of de sires and cravings; they must be put to death through tremendous purifications.

Osiris means beyond the depths, farbeyond desires and beyond the mind. When we return to the Father Osiris, to the Mother Isis, and to the Intimus Horns, the triangle is complete, perfect, Self-Realised. This is the Resurrection of the Dead, since we have here Death and Resurrection.

I was reincarnated in the sacred land of the Pharaohs during the dynasty of the Pharaoh Kephren. I knew in depth the ancient mysteries of secret Egypt, and in truth I say to you that I have never been able to forget them.

There are two types of mummy; one of these types relates to the dead whose cadavers were submitted to the processes of mummification, and the other to the dead in a state of “catalepsy”.

There was a very special secret related to mummification; the brain, viscera and heart had to be removed. These were preserved in sacred vessels, and in the space left by the heart a Sacred Cow of gold and the attributes of Hathor were placed. The bodies were preserved due to the fact that the Egyptians maintained the Etheric Body. An ingenious form of dressing was used by them upon the chakras, on the palms of the hands, and in the arches of the feet. Honey from the bees helped to con serve the mummy, and upon it were placed the Elemental Genii to care for the mummy. These were placed under the protection of Keb, the Genie of the Earth.

Although my words may seem too enigmatic and strange, in truth I say to you that my physical body did not die, but did however go to the sepulchre. There is another type of mummy; that which is related with catalepsy. My case was certainly not an exception;
many other Hierophants have passed to the sepulchre in a cataleptic state.

It should in no way be a surprise to us that this very special type of munmy continues to live without any type of nutrition whatsoever, but with all of the natural faculties in suspension. Remember that the toads during winter buried in the mud lie in rest like corpses, without any food at all, but in spring they return to life. Have you heard of hiberna tion?

Egyptian catalepsy goes much further; and is furthermore wisely combined with magic and occult chemistry.

My Soul obviously escaped from the body. It is unquestionable that this very special type of mummification was not an obstacle to continuing my cycle of reincarnations.

After my death, my Soul would be able to reincorporate permanently in that mummy if Turn (the Father) wished it to be so.

This body would then leave its cataleptic state once and for all; and my Soul vested with that flesh would be able to live as any other person, travelling from country to country. It would once again eat, drink, live beneath the light of the Sun etc., etc. The aforementioned mummy would be taken from the sepulchre for good via the fourth dimension.

The wisdom of the Aztec and of Egypt was Atlantean; and it in turn was Lemurian. The Lemurians and Atlanteans were giants, they constructed the great pyramids of Egypt and of San Juan of Teotihuacan.

SYNTHESIS

The Potable Gold is the very Fire of Kundalini. The universal medicine is within the Potable Gold.

We must put an end to all types of human weakness.

The serpents of the abyss try to rob the disciple of the Potable Gold.

The disciple who allows himself to fall must later struggle greatly to regain that which was lost.

---

CHAPTER 43, ARCANUM NUMBER 21

This Arcanum is the Fool of the Tarot or “Transmutation”. It has been confused with Arcanum 22 which is the “Crown of Life.”

Arcanum 21 can be represented by the inverted pentagonal star which symbolises Black Magic.

In esoteric schools it is stated emphatically that we have a luminous Astral Body. This is very debatable because the Astral Body must be fabricated in the Ninth Sphere through the transmutations of H SI-12. What the average person possesses is the Body of Desire, which is con fused with the Astral Body. This is a grave error, a tremendous mistake, because the Body of Desire is not the Astral Body.

In the Egyptian mysteries that body is known as Apopi, this is the Demon of Desire. That Demon is frightfully evil, and to think that every one has it, that the whole world is evil.
To cease being so is only possible through the efforts and super-efforts of this Path. Only in this way will we cease to be demons.

Mr. Leadbeater describes the Mental Body as a marvellous yellow body with a glowing aura. The Mental Body is mentioned by all as being sub lime; when one studies it however, one discovers that it is not the authentic Mental Body. The authentic precious Body which is not of Adam must be fabricated with the transmutations of H-SI-12. Thus the Mental Body which people have is another Demon which in the Egyptian Mysteries is known as the Demon Hai. It is terribly perverse, and, as in the Egyptian Mysteries, it must be put to death and decapitated in the Sphere of Mercury.

Theosophy speaks about the Causal Body, but man does not have the Causal Body but rather the Demon of Ill-will, called Nebt in the Egyptian Mysteries.

The Demon of Desire, the Demon of the Mind, and the Demon of Ill- will are the Three Furies of which classical mythology speaks. They are the three assassins of Hiram Abiff;
the three traitors who crucify the Christ:

Judas, Pilate and Caiaphas; the three traitors which Dante found in the Ninth Circle:
Judas, Brutus and Cassius.

To incarnate the Real Being and become True Men, the Solar Bodies must be fabricated by means of the transmutation of H-SI-12. But to reach this state the ego must be dissolved so as not to become a Hanasmussen with a double centre of gravity such as Andrameleck.

A Hanasmussen is a Master of the Black Lodge and of the White Lodge. Some sects in the East call them Marut and some of the Mohammedan sects render cult to them. The

Hanasmussen has worked in the Forge of Cyclops but has not dissolved the ego; thus they are miscarriages of the Cosmic Mother.

Arcanum 21 is failure, or the Fool of the Tarot. Transmutation means that one must transmute. In the work of Self- Realisation one is exposed to the risk of committing follies; one must work with the Three Factors for the Revolution of Consciousness:

1: To Die.
2: To be Born.
3: To Sacrifice by humanity.

The dissolution of the ego is necessary because it is none other than a sum of tenebrous entities. We have reached the conclusion that every human being must dissolve the ego;
the seeds must be incinerated, and afterwards one must bathe in the Lethe to put an end to the memories of the past. After the confirmation in the Light, one is received by the White Brotherhood, here the documents are signed. One is then taught that one must be careful; from that instant one must draw back the Veil of Isis which pertains to sex.

If the woman is not in agreement with the Maithuna, then she does not work and the man should do so in silence, and viceversa. If the man is not in agreement with the work of the Maithuna, then the woman should work silently.

The most difficult thing is the destruction of the lunar bodies, he who dissolves the ego has very fertile ground. So, the man or woman who is already old must make use of their time in order to dissolve the ego, awaken consciousness, attain illumination; whilst the man or woman who is married must work in the Ninth Sphere.

One is not alone, but is helped by the Father-Mother. She helps as the Mother who keeps vigil for her son, and He also. If one, however, vio lates the oath of chastity, then comes the Fall, and one is abandoned by one’s Mother, being submitted to pain and bitterness.

In Arcanum 21 danger is clearly indicated by the crocodile. The folly, the error, is to stray from the Path.

SYNTHESIS

Our single disciples of both sexes can transmute their sexual energy with the practice of the Rune Ollin. Practice: In the standing position, the disciple will inhale and exhale rhythmically several times.

In keeping with the inhalation of air, the imagination and will must be united in vibrant harmony so as to make the sexual energy rise through the two ganglionic cords of the spine until it reaches the brain, eyebrow centre, neck and heart, in successive order.

Then the breath will be exhaled, the disciple firmly imagining that the sexual energy is secured in the heart.

Upon exhaling the breath the disciple will vocalise the mantram “Thorn” in this way:

                                   THOOOORRRRNNNN.

With the practice of the Rune Ollin, various movements of the arms should be carried out.

The disciple should place the right hand upon the waist.

He will extend both hands towards the left, the left hand being higher than the right, stretching the arms and forming a sharp angle with the trunk.

Place both hands upon the waist.

In this manner our single disciples of both sexes can transmute their sexual energy.

The sexual energies are also transmuted via aesthetic sensibility, love of music, sculpture, and with long walks etc.

The single person who does not want to have sexual problems must be absolutely pure in thought, word and deed.

---

CHAPTER 44, ARCANUM NUMBER 22

This Arcanum is the Crown of Life, the return to the Light, the incarna tion within us of the Truth.

The Apocalypse says: “Be faithful unto death and I will give you the Crown of Life”.

This without doubt, deserves to be studied profoundly, let us bear in mind the Crown of the Saints. In the pineal gland there exists the Church of the Odyssey. In the time of the Hyperboreans there was a Virgin with that name who bore the offerings to Delos or Delphi, ancient Greece.

This Arcanum represents a crown with many radiations, this is the Sahasrara Chakra, located in the pineal gland. When the Sacred Fire of Kundalini reaches the pineal, it puts in motion that 1,000 petalled lotus. In looking at the matter more deeply, we must know that Mother Kundalini comes to wed the Holy Spirit in the pineal gland. The Holy Spirit is the Third Logos, or Vulcan of Greek mythology; in Tibetan, the Mahachoan. Kundalini develops, evolves and progresses within the aura of the Mahachoan. So it is then, that in the pineal gland the sacred tattwa of Shiva Shakti vibrates intensely, that is to say, the Divine Mother Kundalini and the Third Logos. (Tattwa is the vibration of ether.)

Absolute sanctity cannot be attained until completely finishing with the three traitors who assassinated Hiram Abiff. He is the Master-builder of the Temple of Solomon.

Sebal: the Demon of Desire (Apopi, Judas).
Orteluk: the Demon of the Mind (Hai, Pilate).
Stokin: the Demon of Ill-will (Nebt, Caiaphas).

The objective of our studies is to stop being demons.

1: Judas is the Demon of Desire. He is a terribly perverse demon which we all have, we are all demons. To stop being so accords with the Initiatic Mysteries. We have to begin by recognising that we are demons.

2: Pilate is the Demon of the Mind. He is the one who always washes his hands and continues on.

3: Caiaphas is the Demon of Ill- will. He who does not do the Will of the Father is disobedient. The Will of the Father must be done, here, and in the Internal Worlds.

“They who are sleeping must do the Will of the Father”. The Will of the Father is done:

If there is right thought. If there is right feeling.

If there is right deed.

If we do something wrong, it is not the Will of the Father.

In conclusion, one must eliminate totally, so that there does not remain one subjective element within, and be of pure spirit as Gautama the Bud dha, who for this reason was called the Great Illuminate. To attain this, one must pay; and the price of this is life itself.
The vanities of the world must be forgotten, and one must dedicate one self to the Great Work; to work and work and work until attaining it. This is not a question of evolution or involution, which are two cosmic laws of nature. One must fabricate the Solar Bodies and dissolve the ego. I speak to you from experience, not from theory I know the Egyp tian Mysteries, the Tibetan Mysteries, the Mysteries of Lemuria (because I was on the Continent of Mu), the Hyperborean Mysteries. If one explains the Path it is so that it may be followed. Only with aptitude may one teach.

SYNTHESIS

I, Samael Aun Weor, the authentic and legitimate Avatar of the new Age of Aquarius declare that all the sciences of the universe reduce to Kabalah and Alchemy.

Whoever wants to be a Magician must be an Alchemist and a Kabalist.

There are Black Magicians who teach their disciples negative Sexual Magic, in which the seminal fluid is ejaculated.

Those phallic cults were practised by the evil Black Magicians of Canaan, by the sorcerers of Carthage, of Tyre and of Sidon. The Lemurian-Atlantean Black Magicians practised it so as to ingratiate themselves with the demons.

Those cities were reduced to dust and all of those evil ones entered the abyss.

When a man spills the semen, he takes in from the submerged worlds millions of demonic atoms which infect the Brahmanic cord and they submerge us within our own Atomic hifemos. (The same is the case for the woman who reaches orgasm).

The Three Breaths of Pure Akash are reinforced with Sexual Magic.

If however, man ejaculates the semen, those Three Breaths will cause the Kundalini to descend, to be directed downwards, towards the Atomic Infernos of Man. That is the Tail of Satan.

No disciple should ever spill even a single drop of semen.

I give here to humanity the key of all the Empires of Heaven and of the Earth because I do not wish to see this unhappy human swarm suffering so much.

---

CHAPTER 45, PARTICULAR COMBINATIONS OF THE ARCANA WILL NOW BE STUDIED

                                    13, 2, 3, & 1 4

13 + 2 + 3 = 18; 1 + 8 = 9; The Ninth Sphere.

The Kabalah has a constant relationship with the hebraic alphabet. These initial letters refer to the Word of the Master Mason, which upon oath cannot be revealed. Each one of the three initial letters can be spoken about separately.

Firstly, there is a reference to the word which corresponds to Death and Resurrection:
“Hiram Abiff” signifying that the spirit separates from matter. It means that the flesh separates from the bones. Due to this it is said that one must die to be able to resuscitate;
if one does not die, one is not born.

Secondly, is the construction which follows destruction. That which we are now must be destroyed. We are all demons because we have the terrible demon Apopi of the Egyptian Mysteries. This is the Body of Desire which is mistaken for the Astral Body which one does not have, and which must be fabricated in the Forge of Cyclops; sex.

Then we have the Animal Mental Body, which is worse, which is the demon Hai of the Egyptian Mysteries; this must be destroyed and de capitated. You can observe how there is no peace on Earth. Life is lived with continual war, fornication, adultery, and vengeance; there is nothing angelic about that Mental Body.

We do not have the Causal Body, it must be fabricated in the Forge of Cyclops. In its place we have the demon of Ill-will; that which says I don’t like a particular person.

These three demons exist in every gospel; with the Buddha it was the

Three Furies, the famous Mara. We have to understand that we are demons, and to start from scratch, to be aware of where we are; that we need the Great Destruction of ourselves, the death of the “I”, the de struction of the seeds, and of the lunar bodies.

“That which has been born of the Father is in putrefaction”. This means that the Christ is dead, is putrefying, for which reason it is said that each one of us is a living sepulchre. It is said that He is dead because in none of us does He live.

The Son must be born in us and then free Himself, live the whole drama; later to ascend to the Father. That which is born of the Father lives in the Son, is born of the Ens Seminis and lives in the Christ.

The pure Waters of Life are the basic element of regeneration. When the Buddha was meditating, struggling against the Three Furies, “Mara” unleashed a storm. The water was already at the point of drowning the Buddha when a Serpent appeared and placed itself beneath the seated Buddha. That Serpent coiled itself three and a half times and as the water rose, it rose also; this represents the Divine Mother, and the Buddha did not drown.

Regeneration is not possible without the Waters of Life, and the Son of Man comes from within these Waters of Life.

It is good to have a deep understanding of the esoterism of these sacred things, but truly to understand them. Remember the Fish; it is life which is born and dies in the waters.

Let us not forget the case of the Fish Dan of the Chaldeans; it represents the same, the Christ coming forth from the Waters, the Son of Man being born of the Waters.

The first letter is Faith - Mem.
The second letter is Hope - Beth
The third letter is Charity - Nun

The first letter is Death and Regeneration; note what an intimate relationship there is between Death and Water. Arcanum number 13 which is the Death, is related to the Waters; without the Transmutation (Arcanum 14) of the Waters, it is impossible to attain the Second Birth.

It is necessary to die, and the basis of the Death is in the sexual question. In sex is Death and in sex is Life. After attaining the Second Birth one must eliminate sex. Remember the phrase: “Lead me from the Darkness to the Light”; Death leads to Immortality, from the unreal to the real. The Master must realise all of this, and he does so when he finds the Lost Word. This is the Word which revived Hiram Abiff; it is the Verb, the Word of Light or the superior teaching which the Initiate receives, through which he attains Mastery. It is clear that the Arcanum A.Z.F. is as well the Modus Operandi for the destruction of the ego.

Insofar as Arcanum 13 means Death and Resurrection, it is related with Tantrism (Arcanum 14).

The second letter, Arcanum 2, the House of the Spirit, is related to the Sanctum Sanctorum, which means the Consciousness, the Philosophical Stone without which there could be no Transmutation. It is necessary to fabricate the Solar Bodies; new wine (the Intimate Christ) cannot be placed in old wineskins (the lunar bodies). The Solar Bodies need to be fabricated to contain that Sacred Wine.

In Arcanum 2 is the Philosophical Stone with which all of the Transmutations are realised. The Stone, without which sexual transmutation can not be attained, must be chiselled. This means that one must work hard, this indicates to us Arcanum 14, Transmutation.

Thus, in the Resurrection, or the arising to the Mystery it is necessary to:

1. Deny oneself— Death.
2. Take up one’s Cross — to raise oneself to Mastery.
3. Follow the Christ.

In Arcanum 14 the sacred “N” (Nun) is seen. It is the fish which is born and dies in the Waters, attaining the Light. Let us remember the increasing of the fishes (Mark 6: 36-44).
If we do not descend to destroy the ego we cannot be raised to Mastery, regardless of attaining the Second Birth.

It is necessary to descend in order to be able to ascend. In Arcanum 3 there is both material and spiritual Victory.

Arcanum number 3, the Divine Mother, Kundalini, is the Goddess of the Verb, is Hadit the Winged Goddess, the “Lost Word”, It is the Universal Language. In the bible it is the famous Banquet of Nebuchadnezzar.

---

CHAPTER 46, ARCANA 7, 8 & 9

The Arcana 7, 8 and 9 are the “Three Grades of Mastery”. They are the tools of trade in the Great Work.

In Arcanum number 7 we find the Chariot, emblem of Triumph. Arcanum number 8 is Justice, emblem of the force balanced in all directions. Arcanum number 9 is the Hermit, it is the emblem of the Hidden Cross and the search for it. All aspirants seek it, but we know that at bottom, it is the Ninth Sphere, sex.

Arcanum 7 is qualities and capacities which are indispensable to Mastery. By means of self-dominion one must, or one must learn to control oneself, to dominate oneself to one day attain Mastery, the Magistery of Fire. If we carefully observe Arcanum 7 we see that the Chariot is drawn by two sphinxes, one white and the other black. It is necessary to re strain the inferior nature, symbolised hereby the two sphinxes who pull the chariot. The yoking means to dominate, to control the passions, to yoke the beast. The Chariot is our own life. The two sphinxes symbolise the pair of opposites, hatred and love, the light and the darkness.

Arcanum 8 considered carefully, signifies Vigilance, Justice; the sword pointing upwards signifies Rectitude. We need to be correct in our thoughts, our words and our deeds. The left hand of the woman supports the balance of Equity Equilibrium, Precision; the Balance of Jus tice represents this.

Just as Arcanum number 7 - Triumph - is attained through the self-dominion of the Chariot of Life, by dominating oneself, by knowing how to manage one’s own life or guiding intelligently the Chariot of Life, so also Arcanum number 8 represents Rectitude, Justice, Steadfastness, Balance. Steadfastness, the Sword; Equilibrium, the Scale; that steadfast ness must become the very axis of life, the central gravitational point of life and of our existence.

Whilst Arcanum number 9 is the Hidden Light which manifests in the Initiation, which revitalises the powers, in order to be able to see this Light, one must become a Master, and it is clear that every aspirant must attain Mastery.

Arcana 7, 8 and 9 are the tools of the work. Arcanum number 7 teaches us to control ourselves. Arcanum number 8 teaches us Justice and Rectitude in our thoughts, words and deeds. A man must live with rectitude.

Arcanum number 9 speaks to us of the Hermit who carries the Staff in the right hand and in the left, the lantern; the important thing is to hold this aloft, to raise it is vital in order to illuminate the path for others.

Arcanum number 9 is fundamental, is Authentic Mastery. Arcanum number 9 is in the whole cosmos observe the construction of the universe and you will see Arcanum number 9 everywhere; we find the 9 above, the 9 below.

                          9 + 9 = 18 -------------- 1 + 8 = 9

---

CHAPTER 47, ARCANA 11 & 12

It is plainly obvious that the trunks or tablets of the Law upon which the prophet Moses, by command of Jehova, wisely wrote the Ten Command ments, are in reality none other than a double lance of the Runes about whose phallic significance there is much documentation.

It is important to stress the transcendental idea that there exist two more Commandments in the esoterism of Moses. I want to refer to the Eleventh and Twelfth Commandments which are intimately related with Arcana 11 and 12 of the Kabalah.

Number 11 has its classic expression in the Sanskrit Dharma-Kârya: “Do your duty”.
Remember dear reader that you have the duty to seek the strait, narrow and difficult Path which leads to the Light.

Arcanum number 11 of the Tarot sheds light upon this duty; the marvellous force which can dominate and subdue the lions of adversity is essentially spiritual. It is for this reason that it is represented by a beautiful woman who, without apparent force, opens with her exquisite hands the terrible jaws of Leo, the frightening puma, the furious lion.

There is a connection and intertwining of the eleventh with the twelfth Commandment of the Law of God, demonstrated by Arcanum 12: “Make your Light shine”.

So that the Light, the Essence, trapped within the “I”, may really be able to shine, to be resplendent, it must be freed; and this is only possible through the Buddhist Annihilation, by dissolving the ego.

We need to die from instant to instant, from moment to moment; only with the death of the ego does the new come.

Just as life represents a gradual and more and more complex process of externalisation or extroversion, equally, the death of the “I” is a process of gradual internalisation in which the individual consciousness, the Essence, is slowly divested of its useless garb. The same is true of Ishtar in her symbolic descent, until she is left completely naked before the great reality of life, free in its movement.

The Lance, Sex, the Phallus, has an important role as a marvellous in strument of salvation or liberation in numerous Oriental legends. When wisely brandished by the yearning soul, it is able to reduce to cosmic dust all of the cavernicolous entities which in their sinful combination form the Myself.

The sexual energy is highly explosive and marvellous. In truth I say to you that he who knows how to use the weapon of Eros (the Lance, Sex) can reduce to cosmic dust the pluralised “I”.

To pray is to converse with God; and one must learn to pray during coitus. In those moments of supreme joy, ask, and it will be given to you, knock and it will be opened unto you.

He who puts his heart into the supplication and begs his Divine Mother Kundalini to take up the weapon of Eros will obtain the best results be cause she will then assist, destroying the ego.

A prior condition to all elimination is integral understanding of the defect which one wants to eliminate.

---

CHAPTER 48, ARCANA 6, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 & 20

Arcanum number 20 is that of the Resurrection and this is very impor tant. In occult esoterism it is said that Hiram Abiff or Chiram Osiris lies dead in the Ninth Sphere, in the heart of the Earth. It is said that to reach the sepulchre one must traverse the Nine Vaults, the Nine Strata of the interior of our planetary organism. That Ninth Sphere is in our human organism, is sex. If it is that the Internal Christ is there, dead, then only there will He be able to be revived.

This matter of the Resurrection is something grandiose. Jonas was in the belly of a whale for “Three Days”, Jesus rose on the Third Day. This is symbolic. That great whale of Jonas is the Earth itself, our same planetary organism. The Three Days are symbolic because they are “three” periods of esoteric work before attaining the Resurrection of the Intimate Christ in us.

The First Day —        it is the Second Birth.

The Second Day — it is to kill the Three Traitors.

The Third Day —       it is the Resurrection of the Lord.

We find here the three factors for the Revolution of Consciousness:

1. To Die.

2. To be Born.

3. To Sacrifice for Humanity.

Lobsang Rampa says that he was placed in a sarcophagus for three days as if dead. This is symbolic; there is no school which does not speak of these three days. Various pseudo-esoteric schools stress that one must spend Three Days in the Sepulchre to attain Self-Realisation. Lobsang Rampa says that in that interval of three days duration his body lay as dead in the tomb, and he learnt many things in the superior worlds. This is a symbolic Initiatic ceremony; it gives us a teaching, and one must make a differentiation between the symbolic teaching and the teaching as lived.

Jesus was in the sepulchre and in three days he resuscitated and contin ued living for 11 years, teaching, instructing; so says the Pistis Sophia. In ancient times the information about the Three Days in the Sepulchre was known. In Samothrace, amongst the Maya, the Egyptians and the Aztec; all had their traditions of the Sepulchre and the Three Days.
The aspirants to Adepthood were taken to volcanoes, or chambers, or closed tombs which had the form of a Fish; let’s remember that the coffin of Osiris in the old Egypt of the

Pharaohs, in the sunny land of Kem, had the form of a fish. This reminds us of Oannes, who spent three days in his sarcophagus an ancient tradition lost in the darkest night.

The old traditions which are lost in the terrifying night of the centuries, tell that whilst the body of the Initiate lies like a corpse in the tomb, his Soul, freed of the dense human form, experiences directly in the superior worlds, the Ritual of Life and Death. Masonry has not forgotten the coffin.

There is something that shows that Tuesday Lobsang Rampa and other authors do not possess complete knowledge, and this is the fact that they confuse the funerary symbol of the Three Days with the crude real ity which it conceals. It is as if we were to confuse ourselves with the flag, which is only a symbol; like being mistaken about the two columns of Jakin and Boaz, which are esoteric symbols which represent man and woman.
So also the funerary casket is a symbol. Previously the Initiate used to pass three days in the sepulchre, but everything has its limit, and beyond that limit we have to develop the knowledge. It is necessary to go more deeply into the reality.

What is meant by Jesus arising from the tomb? What is meant by Jonas being in the belly of the whale for three days and then spewed up?

“An evil and adulterous generation seeking after a sign; but there shall be no sign given to it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas”.

“For as Jonas was three days and three nights in the whale’s belly; so shall the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the Earth.” (Matthew 12. 39-40).

This is symbolic; Jonas says that he was submerged in the Waters, and in the depths of the mountains below; the Earth enclosed him and he, within the profundities of the Earth cried out to Jehovah. The fact that the abyss closed up is very significant going deeper, we must remember the “Leviathan”, that marvellous Fish who lives beneath the waters of the sea. (Isaiah 27.1; Job 41.1; Psalms 74.14, 104.26).

This is the First Day, when we submerge within ourselves; it is that day when all of us have to descend to the subterranean worlds in order to fabricate the bodies which allow the second birth. The First Day is that in which we have to descend to the very bottom of Tartarus, like the Law of Leviathan.

On the Second Day it is necessary to return to the depth of the abyss so as to remain there and destroy those things which we have created with our bad actions.

It is indubitable that superlative transformation is only possible with the Resurrection of the Intimate Christ in the heart of man. This is the crucial, culminating phase of the Third Day, the instant in which the Earth or the brilliant constellation of the whale spews forth Jonas the Prophet so he may go forth and teach Nineveh in order to be able to return to the Father. Upon being spewed forth, Jonas became a Resurrected Master and they sent

him to teach; for this reason he has a right to the Ascension. Every exaltation is preceded by a humiliation; the humiliation is the descent to the infernal worlds.

This matter of the Three Days lends us to comment about something more profound: let he who has an understanding, understand. It is necessary to comprehend and to meditate.
The Leviathan, that which moves through the Waters, is the true Master who has been decapitated and returns to decapitate. Who could decapitate Leviathan? Who would be able to harm him who has already received all manner of injury and has revived? We must become Resurrected Masters!

One thing is the Cross and another the works which must be realised in the Ninth Sphere.
There continues to be a correlation between the symbol and the work.

All esoteric advance in these studies has its base in the Kabalah.

Arcana 13 and 14 have not been well understood, and for this reason it is necessary to study them more profoundly. In the Egypt of the Pharaohs, Typhoon cutting into pieces the body of Osiris takes the form of a fish; Isis, the Divine Mother, the wife sister of Osiris, upon trying to revive him, only found “13 pieces”, the 14th was the phallus which was not found. The 13 is the Death; it is obvious that Osiris must spend three days in the sepulchre and these three days are equivalent to the three periods for the decapitation of the ego. Isis found the 13 pieces but did not find the 14th , the phallus, because all lustful elements had died in “Him”; he had attained a complete death. Only in this way can Osiris victoriously attend the Temple of Maat (Truth), only thus can he make the Negative Confession, because he no longer has ego; he has Pure Spirit. This matter of Osiris in the sepulchre is most important, he is well-dead, and only on the third day is resuscitated:

1: Generation.

2: Degeneration.

3: Regeneration.

The extraordinary and marvellous form of the old coffin of Osiris, because of its similarity and Initiatic meaning, naturally calls to mind another fish, magnificently represented in the Semitic alphabet by the letter Samek, which occupies the fifteenth place kabalistically, that which indubitably, in the beginning symbolised the famous Constellation of the Whale, under whose rule we must realise all of the works of the Ninth Sphere. That constellation is related with the event of Jonas and has to do with the measurements of the coffin of Osiris which has the form of a fish, because by means of it Osiris had to descend the black and horrifying precipice; had to spend three periods in the belly of the whale.

This is intimately related with Arcanum number 13; that is, the three descents to the infernal worlds. Each descent covers a period of Three Days in the Holy Sepulchre. Jonas

worked three days; three periods of time with sex; at the end of three days the whale spewed him up and he went forth to preach.

The Whale corresponds to the kabalistic Arcanum 15; this invites us to reflect. Arcanum 15 is the Typhoon Baphomet, the Devil, animal passion. This invites us to understand what the work in the Ninth Sphere (sex) really is.

If one fails in Arcana 13, 14 or 15, if one is not able to work within the whale, well then, it is natural that we go down into the precipice with Arcanum 16, which is the Fulminated Tower. The Initiate who spills the Vessel of Hermes will be fulminated by Arcanum 16 of the Constellation of Aries, the Ray of Cosmic Justice will cause him to fall from the tower like the inverted Pentalpha, with the head pointing downwards, and the two legs pointing upwards.

Arcanum 17, the Star of Hope, is for the individual who has never been fulminated, for he who is capable of attaining the Venustic Initiation. If we add this Arcanum it gives us 1 + 7 = 8, the number of Job, patience, tests, suffering.

If we make a kabalistic addition of the figures of Arcanum 15, the Constellation of the Whale, we will have the following result: 1 + 5 = 6. Six in the Tarot is the Arcanum of the Lover; the man between virtue and passion. Learn to polarise ourselves wisely with Arcanum 6 and we will have overcome the terrible 15 of the Constellation of the Whale.

Remember dear reader that in the middle of the chest you have a very special magnetic centre which captures the waves of light and glory which come from your Human Soul;
She is Tiphereth, Arcanum 6 of the Tarot. Listen to Her, obey the commands which arise from Her. Act in accordance with those intimate impulses; work in the Forge of Cyclops when this is what She wishes. If you learn to obey you will not perish in the belly of the whale.

Look how you have become a fish working in the chaotic waters of the first instant.

You will now understand why the coffin of Osiris has the form of a fish. It is unquestionable that the seven days, or periods of the Genesis of Moses is synthesised in those three days and three nights of Jonas within the belly of the whale; an Initiatic ceremony which was repeated by the Great Kabir Jesus in the Holy Sepulchre.

Jonas the Prophet, working under the rule of the Constellation of the Whale, located in the deep well of the universe, in the Ninth Sphere (sex), realises his work in three days, or three more or less long periods:

First Day: to descend to the infernal worlds to fabricate the Solar Bodies, the Wedding Clothes of the Soul, and to establish within oneself a permanent centre of consciousness.
To descend to the infernal worlds of nature is necessary, it is a period of elimination until the destruction of Set, until attaining the Second Birth.

Second Day: to descend to the abyss to face terrible sacrifices, to utilise the creative energy for the destruction of all the subjective elements of the ego. This work is realised in the lunar infernal worlds, in the sub-lunar regions of which the esoteric books speak.

One then completely eliminates the Three Traitors of the Intimate Christ: Judas, Pilate and Caiaphas; and the atoms of the Secret Enemy. One must disintegrate the Dragon of Darkness, the Red Dragon. One continues with the secondary submerged beasts in which the consciousness is trapped.

Third Day: One must return to the very depth of the abyss to put an end to the innumerable facts from previous lives. One continues dying in the spheres of Mercury, Venus, the Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, etc. On the Third Day the black waters are transformed into those of resplendent light; ancient atoms are destroyed, which culminates in the Mystic Res urrection.

Each one of these three periods culminates in:

A. The first period of time concludes with the Second Birth, about which the Great Kabir Jesus spoke to the Rabbi Nicodemus.

B. The second period ends when the consciousness is freed, and with the marvellous weddings. This is nothing other than the wedding of the Human Soul with the Valkyrie, the Guinevere, the Queen of Jinas, which is the feminine Spiritual Soul, the Buddhi within which burns the flame of the Spirit, the flame of Brahama. To women we will say that they then wed with the Eternal Beloved.

C. The third period concludes magisterially with the resurrection of the Intimate Christ within our own heart. And it is logical that then comes the ascension to the superior worlds.

For now, all that one is receiving is information. This must be lived and experienced directly. Do not go astray, but remain constant.

Study the prayer of Jonas, it is beautiful, within it are to be found magnificent esoteric Arcana.

Study the book of Jonas in the Old Testament, investigate all of that archaic information concerning the three days. This must be understood most deeply, because many are they who do not know the work in the Underworld.

In reality, this matter is related with card 12 of the Tarot, because 1 + 2 = 3 (Three Days).
Here, the man is hanging by the feet, and with them forming a cross. The hands form a triangle and the head points down wards. This indicates to us to descend the deep well of the abyss. This is the Apostolate.

There are 22 Arcana because it is Truth, Tetragrammaton, Iod-He-Vau He; and there must be 22 Arcana to explain it.

                                PART THREE

                                         ***

                        THE INITIATIC PATH

                     IN THE ARCANA OF THE

                       TAROT AND KABALAH

                                         ***

                     THE HEBRAIC KABALAH

                                         ***
        “There are two classes of kabalists - intellectual kabalists and intuitive
      kabalists. Intellectual kabalists are Black Magicians, intuitive kabalists are
                          White Magicians”. Samael Aun Weor.

---

CHAPTER 49, THE ABSOLUTE

  “The fundamental content of this work is for a more advanced humanity, because the
   people of this barbaric epoch do not have the capacity to understand these things.”
                                   Samael Aun Weor.

                                           ***

The Absolute is the Being of all Beings. The Absolute is that which is, has always been, and always will be. It expresses as abstract absolute movement and repose. It is the cause of Spirit and of matter, but is neither one nor the other. The Absolute is beyond the mind;
and the mind cannot understand it because what we must do is intuit its nature.

The Absolute is beyond conditioned life. Beyond that which is relative is the Real Being, (He). He is Non-Being because He does not retain any relationship whatsoever with our concepts, but is however, “The Real Being”. Because we do not understand this intellectually, for us all of this is as Non-Being, although it is the Real Being of Being.

To be is better than to exist, and the reason for Being of the Being is the Being itself. Our legitimate existence is in the Absolute, which is a Non- Being; to the human reason a non-existence.

The Absolute is not a God, and is neither a Divine nor human individual; it would be absurd to give form to that which does not ha ve form; it would be nonsensical to attempt to anthropomorphise space.

The Absolute is certainly unconditioned and eternal abstract space, far beyond Gods and men. The Absolute is uncreated Light which casts no shadow anywhere during the profound night of the Great Pralaya.

The Absolute is beyond time, number and measure; beyond weight, chance, beyond form, fire, light and darkness. Nonetheless, it is fire and uncreated light.

The Absolute has three aspects:

1. Ain, which is the same as Sat in Sanskrit; that is, the Unmanifested Absolute.

2. Ain Soph, the second aspect. This is where a certain manifestation already exists. Here remain all creatures when the Great Pralaya (Cosmic Night) arrives, because they do not have the right to penetrate Ain, or Unmanifested Absolute which is beyond thought, the Verb, the atom, sound, beyond all that has form, number, weight, etc.

3. Ain Soph Aur, the third aspect in accordance with the Hebraic Kabalah, to be found here is the First Cosmos, the purely spiritual Protocosmos, the Solar Absolute formed by multiple Spiritual Suns.

PRACTICE

Meditate upon the Absolute and the Pralaya, having the mind still and in silence.

---

CHAPTER 50, AIN

Abstract Space is the Causa Causorum of all that is, has been and will be. Profound and joyful space is certainly the incomprehensible “Seity”, the ineffable mystic root of the seven Cosmos, the mysterious origin of all that we know as spirit, matter, universes, suns, worlds, etc.

“That”, the Divine, the space of happiness, is a tremendous reality beyond the universe and the Gods. “That” has no dimension whatsoever, and truly is that which will always be and has been; it is the life which palpitates intensely in each atom and each sun.

Let us now speak of the great ocean of the Spirit - how can it be defined? It is certainly Brahama, the first differentiation or modification of “That” before which Gods and men tremble.

Is “That” spirit? In truth I say to you that it is not. Is “That” matter? I say to you that it certainly is not.

“That” is the root of spirit and of matter, but is neither one nor the other. “That”
transcends the laws of number, measure and weight, surface area, quantity quality, in front, behind, above, below, etc.

“That” is the immutable in profound divine abstraction, Light which has never been created by any God, nor by any man, that which does not have name.

Brahama is spirit, but “That” is not spirit. Ain, the unmanifested, is uncreated Light.

The Absolute is life free in its movement, is the supreme reality; is ab stract space which only expresses as absolute abstract movement, limitless happiness, total omniscience.
The Absolute is uncreated Light and perfect plenitude, absolute happiness, life free in its movement, life with out conditions, without limits.

In the Absolute we pass beyond karma and the Gods; beyond the Law.

The mind and individual consciousness only serve to cause distress in life. In the Absolute we do not have mind nor individual consciousness.

There, we are unconditioned being, free and absolutely happy.

The Absolute is life free in its movement, without conditions, without limitations, without the mortifying fear of the Law; life beyond spirit and matter, beyond karma and suffering.

The Absolute is Absolute Abstract Space, Absolute Abstract Movement, Absolute Liberty without conditions, without reservations, Absolute Omniscience and Absolute Happiness.

We have to put an end to the action of the “I” to enter the Absolute. The human “I” must enter the house of the dead; must go to the communal grave of the astral remains. It must be disintegrated in the abyss so that the Being may be born filled with majesty and power.

It is only impersonal life and the Being which may give us the rightful happiness of the Great Life, free in its movement.

To do battle, to struggle, to suffer, to finally liberate oneself, to be lost like a glistening droplet in the ocean of uncreated Light is, without doubt, the greatest yearning.

Before entering the Absolute one must prepare oneself in the region of Atala; here the beings are colourless, here lives a man who was not able to enter the Absolute because he invented the words Good and Evil in place of using the words Evolutive and Involutive, and so created karma.

Humanity has been adversely affected by these two words. It is said of everything that “that is Bad” or “that is Good”, and thus, all that which invites us to study the Internal Values is brought to a standstill. For this reason, that Holy Man is waiting.

We need to help people to exchange these two words for Evolutive and Involutive.

In the bosom of the Absolute there exists a great exaltation. The Paramarthasattyas are little by little exalted, and pass far beyond any possible comprehension.

---

CHAPTER 51, AIN SOPH

All creation emanates from Ain Soph, but creation is not equal either in essence or in power to Ain Soph. Ain Soph, through its divine, uncreated Light radiates from itself an intelligence, a power, which although it originally partook of the perfection and boundlessness of its Credo in having derived from Him, has a finite aspect. The Kabalah calls this first spiritual emanation of Ain Soph the ineffable Ancient of Days, which is the Being of our Being; the Father and Mother in us.

Ain Soph, not being able to express in the limited physical plane, ex presses by means of its “Ten Sephiroth”.

In Ain Soph there exists a strange evolution which neither the Gods nor men know.
Beyond the Intimus is the Logos, or Christ. Beyond the ineffable Ancient of Days is Ain Soph or the Absolute. Its exhalation is called the Cosmic Day (Mahamanvantara), the inhalation, Cosmic Night (Great Pralaya).

During the Cosmic Night the universe disintegrates in Ain Soph, and only exists in its mind and in that of its Gods. That, however, which exists in the mind of Him, and in the mind of Them, is objective in Absolute Abstract Space.

Before the blazing heart of the Solar System of Ors in which we live, move and have our Being began to intensely palpitate after the Great Pralaya, time did not exist, but lay sleeping within the profound bosom of Absolute Abstract Space.

If, at the end of the Mahamanvantara, the seven basic dimensions of the universe are reduced to a simple mathematical point, which becomes lost like a drop in the great Ocean, it is clear that then time ceases to exist.

Worlds like men, animals and plants are born, grow, age and die. All which breathes beneath the sun has a defined time.

Ancient wisdom says that Brahama, the Father, the Ocean of the Univer sal Spirit of Life, upon the arrival of the Great Night (that which the Hindu call Pralaya, or the dissolution of the universe) submerges Him self within Absolute Abstract Space for 7 Eternities.

The 7 Eternities signify “Æva”, or periods of time which are totally de fined, clear and precise.

We have been told that a Mahakalpa, Great Age, Cosmic Day, has a total of
311,040,000,000,000 years. Obviously, a Mahapralaya, a Cosmic Night, is equivalent to the same period of time.

When the profound night of the creators of this Solar System comes, they will be absorbed in the bosom of the Absolute. A group of moons will remain; the planets, the Sun, the Earth, and life will have disappeared along with the virginal sparks. To each of us corresponds a virginal spark, to each living creature there corresponds a virginal spark, and these will be absorbed in the Absolute for 7 Eternities.

If we observe Selene (our Moon) we will see that it is a cadaver. It had a rich life, seas and volcanoes. There are other moons which orbit around Mars, Saturn, etc., which once had life. In the past Mahamanvantara which was a Padma, or Golden Lotus, the Moon had a humanity, seven races, and died.

Before the dawn of the Mahamanvantara, the universe slept in terrible darkness.

At the beginning or dawn of each universe, the eternal Black Light, or Absolute Darkness becomes Chaos.

Darkness is in itself Father-Mother; the Light, their Son so says ancient wisdom.

Clearly, the Uncreated Light has an unknown origin, absolutely unknown to us.

We are in no manner exaggerating if we put emphasis on the idea that such origin is Darkness.

We may speak now of the borrowed, cosmic, secondary light; obviously whatever its origin, and beautiful though it may be, it has at root, a transitory nature, illusory, of Maya.

The ineffable Profound Darkness forms then the Eternal Womb, within which the origins of the light appear and disappear.

It is said that the Absolute is darkness, from the darkness comes the light. The Uncreated Light of the Absolute comes from the profound darkness of the Great Night; from that darkness which does not have light springs forth the Uncreated Light. If we were to place ourselves there we would see nothing more than an abyss and profound darkness. For the inhabitants of the Absolute (the Parama rthasattyas) however, that darkness is Uncreated Light, made neither by man nor by God, where reigns inexhaustible happiness, inconceivable joy.

There exist tremendous geniuses of evil like Belial, Bael, Moloch, etc., terrible Masters.

Knowing that the light comes from the darkness, they hurled themselves to the Abyss, even though knowing that they would involute. From the Abyss comes the Light, due to this we must descend to the darkness to destroy the “I”, Satan, so as to extract the light from the darkness.

By means of the fire the Gods arise from the Abyss and become lost in the Absolute.

Light and darkness are phenomena of the same Noumenon, unknown, profound,
inconceivable to reason.

That we may more or less perceive the light which shines in the darkness is something which depends upon our power of spiritual vision. The Absolute is profound darkness to the human eye; and Uncreated and terrible Light to the ineffable hierarchy of the Paramarthasattyas.

“That which for us is light, is darkness to certain insects; and the spiritual eye sees illumination where the normal eye only perceives darkness...”

The universe submerged in the Pralaya after the Mahamanvantara, dissolved in its primordial element, has no choice other than to rest in the profound darkness of infinite space.

It is urgent to understand deeply the profound mystery of the chaotic darkness.

The Cosmos comes from Chaos and from the darkness springs forth the Light; let us pray profoundly.

In all of the sacred books of the world it is written with words of fire that the Chaos is the seedbed of the Cosmos.

The Nothing, Chaos, is clearly, without the slightest doubt, Alpha and Omega, the beginning and end of all worlds which live and palpitate in the unalterable infinite.

In the Brahmin Aitareya, the magistral and precious lesson of the Rig Veda, the tremendous similarity between those enlightened ideas of the Brahmin and those of the Pythagoreans is clearly demonstrated time and again because the one, as the other, is based in mathematics. In the abovementioned Hindu work the Black Fire, Dark Abstract Wisdom, Absolute Light, unconditioned and without name is frequently alluded to.

That Abstract Seity, the primitive Zero-Aster of the Parsis, the Nothing saturated with life, That.. .That. . .That...

God Himself, that is to say, the Army of the Voice, the Verb, the Great Word, is dead when the Great Pralaya, the Cosmic Night comes; and is reborn, most divine at the dawn of the divine Mahamanvantara.

The Absolute Radical Zero of transcendental arithmetic, abstract space in geometry, the unknowable Seity (not to be confused with the Deity, which is different), is not born, nor dies, nor reincarnates.

From all that unknowable, or Radical Zero, emanates at the beginning of any sidereal universe, the Pythago rean Monad, the Gnostic Father-Mother, the Hindu Purusha-Prakriti, the Egyptian Osiris-Isis, the kabalistic Dual Protocosmos or Adam-Kadmon, the

Theos-Chaos of the theogony of Hesiod, the Chaldean Uranus, or Fire and Water, the Semite lod-Heve, the Parsi Zeru-Ama the One and Only, the Buddhist Aunadad Ad, the Rauch Elohim or Divine Spirit of the Lord floating above the waters of the first moment of Genesis.

In the Profound Night only darkness filled the unlimited all; then, Father, Mother, and Son were once more One, and the Son had not yet awakened to the Wheel and His peregrinations within it.

It is written in unmistakeable letters of fire in the book of great life that at the end of the Mahamanvantara, Osiris (the Father), Isis (the Mother) merge, and Horus (the Divine Spirit) integrates with them. They mix and fuse as Three Fires to form a single Flame.

We must seek Osiris, Isis and Horus within ourselves, within the unknown profundities of our own Being.

It is obvious that Osiris, Isis, and Horns themselves constitute the Monad, the Dyad and the Triad of our Internal Being.

Have you heard of Brahama? He himself is the same Father-Mother-Son.

In each new cosmic dawn the universe revives, as does the Phoenix bird, from its own ashes.

At the dawning of each Mahamanvantara the Monad unfolds once again into the Duad, and into the Triad.

At the break of the new Cosmic Day, following the profound night, the Son, the Triad, Horus (the Divine Spirit of each one), emanates from Himself His essence, His mystic principles, and the Wheel of Samsara with the clear purpose of acquiring Diamond Soul.

A how great the joy of Horns upon acquiring Diamond Soul! He is then absorbed into His Divine Mother, and She fuses with the Father to form a single diamantine flame, a God of splendorous interior beauty.

Space is filled with universes; whilst some systems of worlds come out of the profound night, others reach their sunset; here birthplaces; there, sepulchres.

When the dawn of the Mahamanvantara begins, heterogeneity develops from
homogeneity, the Army of the Voice (God) is reborn to create once again.

When the Aurora of the Cosmic Day was proclaimed, the universe shud dered with terror.
In the consciousness of Gods and men arose a strange and terrifying dawning, and the Uncreated Light began to distance it self from their consciousness.

The Gods and men then cried like babies before the Aurora of the Great Cosmic Day...
The Causal Logos of the First Instant reminded Gods and men of their karmic debts, and the peregrination of man from world to world began.

Unto the Earth, where he now lives subject to the “Wheel of Birth and Death”, until he learns to live governed by the Law of Love.

The universe arose from the entrails of the Absolute, and the Uncreated Light sank into a sunset of nostalgia. Gods and men descended thus into the shadows of the universe.

The Sacrifice was consummated and the Kabalah records this in its ma jor Arcanum number 12. If we add the number 12 together, it gives us 3. One is the Masculine principle, the Fire. Two, the Feminine principle, Water, the Semen. Three, the Universe, the Son.

The present Cosmic Day is symbolised by the blue pelican opening its chest with its own beak in order to drink of its own entrails, from which emanated all that was created.

---

CHAPTER 52, AIN SOPH AUR

Each universe of infinite space possesses its own Central Sun, and the sum of all these Spiritual Suns constitutes Ain Soph Aur, the Protocosmos, the Solar Absolute.

The Solar Absolute is formed of multiple transcendental, divine Spir itual Suns.

The emanation of our “Omnimerciful and Sacred Solar Absolute” is that which Helen P.
Blavatsky calls “The Great Breath” to itself, pro foundly unknown...

Much has been spoken about the Sacred Absolute Sun, and obviously, every solar system is governed by one of these Spiritual Suns. They are really extraordinary sparkling Spiritual Suns having infinite splendour in space. They are radiant spheres which are never able to be perceived by the astronomers with their telescopes.

This means that our system of worlds has its own Sacred Absolute Sun, the same as all of the other solar systems in unalterable space.

The Protocosmos, or first cosmos is infinitely divine, ineffable. In it there does not exist any mechanical principle, it is governed by the One Law. If we reflect profoundly about the Solar Absolute, we will see that there exists beyond, the most complete freedom, absolute happiness, because everything is governed by the One Law.

Unquestionably, in the Sacred Solar Absolute, in the central Spiritual Sun of this system in which we live, move, and have our Being, there exists no mechanicity whatsoever, and therefore it is obvious that there reigns there the most complete blessedness.

Obviously in the central Spiritual Sun governed by the One Law, there exists the unchangeable happiness of the Eternal Living God. Unfortunately, as we distance ourselves more and more from the Sacred Absolute Sun, we enter more and more complicated worlds where automatism, mechanicity and pain enters into things.

Obviously in the second cosmos of three Laws, the Ayocosmos (planets, suns, firmaments), the joy is incomparable because materialism is less. Any atom in that region possesses in its internal nature only three atoms of the Absolute.

How different is the third cosmos, the Macrocosmos (our Galaxy, the Milky Way), governed by six Laws. Here materialism increases because any one of its atoms possesses internally, six atoms of the Absolute.

We penetrate the fourth cosmos, the Deuterocosmos (our solar system) governed by twelve Laws. Here we find that matter is much denser due to the concrete fact that any one of its atoms contains twelve atoms of the Absolute.

If we carefully examine the fifth cosmos, the Mesocosmos (the planet Earth) governed by twenty four Laws, we will see that any one of its atoms possesses in its intimate nature, twenty four atoms of the Absolute.

We may study in detail the sixth cosmos, the Microcosmos (man) governed by forty eight Laws, and we will find that in any atom of the human organism, perceived by means of Divine Clairvoyance, there are forty eight atoms of the Absolute.

We may go a little lower and we will enter the realm of the most crude materialism, the seventh cosmos, the Tritocosmos, the infernal worlds beneath the crust of the planet in which we live, which is governed by ninety six Laws. We will discover that in the first infradimensional zone the density has increased frightfully because in its intimate nature, there are ninety six atoms of the Absolute.

In the second infernal zone each atom possesses one hundred and ninety two atoms of the Absolute. In the third zone, each atom possesses in its interior three hundred and eighty four atoms of the Absolute, etc., etc., etc., the materialism thus increasing in a frightening and terrifying manner.

Upon submerging ourselves within Laws which are more and more complex, we
obviously progressively make ourselves more and more inde pendent of the Will of the Absolute and we fall into the mechanical complication of this great Nature. If we wish to reconquer freedom, we must free ourselves of such mechanicity and such Laws and return to the Father.

Ostensibly, we must struggle in a tireless manner to liberate ourselves from the 48, 24, 12, 6 and 3 Laws in order to really return to the Sacred Absolute Sun of our system.

---

CHAPTER 53, AIN SOPH PARANISHPANNA

A Divine Ray exists within man. That ray wishes to return to its Star which has always smiled upon it. That Star which internally guides us is a Super-divine atom of Absolute Abstract Space. The kabalistic name of that atom is the sacred Ain Soph.

Ain Soph is our atomic star. That star gleams full of glory in Absolute Abstract Space.
Thus from that star emanates Kether (the Father), Chochmah (the Son) and Binah (the Holy Spirit) of every man. Ain Soph, the star that guides our interior sends its ray to the world in order to become conscious of its own happiness.

Happiness without consciousness of its own happiness is not happiness. The Ray (the Spirit) had mineral, vegetable and animal consciousness. When that Ray incarnated for the first time in a savage and primitive human body, it awoke as man and had self-consciousness of its own happiness. The Ray could then have returned to the Star which guides its interior. Unfortunately, within the profound bosom of the maelstrom of the dense forest, savage desire gave birth to the “I”. The instinctive forces of nature trapped the innocent mind of man and the false mirage of desire arose.

The “I” then continued reincarnating to satisfy its desires. Thus we are main submitted to the Laws of Evolution and of Karma.

Experiences and pain complicate the “I”; evolution is a process of complication of energy. The “I” is strengthened and complicated with expe rience. It is now already very late. Millions of people have become monstrous demons. Only a tremendous revolution can save us from the abyss. When man dissolves the “I”, then there is total revolution.

Man can cease to suffer when he is capable of dissolving the “I”. Pain is the result of our bad actions.

Pain is of Satan (the psychological “I”), because it is he who is responsible for the bad actions. Absolute Abstract Space, the Universal Spirit of Life, is absolute happiness, supreme peace and abundance.

They who make something mystic of pain are masochists. Satan was, and is, the creator of pain. Pain is satanic. No-one can be liberated with pain. We need to be Alchemists.

With Alchemy the “I” is dissolved. The root of the “I” is desire; desire is transmuted with the Alchemy.

If you wish to annihilate desire, you must transmute. Sexual desire is transformed into Will and Will is Fire. The desire of accumulation (ava rice) is transmuted into altruism.
Anger (frustrated desire) is transmuted into sweetness. Envy (frustrated desire) is

transmuted into happiness for the good fortune of others. The words of desire are transmuted into the Verb of Wisdom, etc., etc., etc.

Analyse all of the human defects and you will see that they have their basis in desire.
Transmute desire with the Alchemy, and desire will be annihilated. Everyone who annihilates desire, dissolves the “I”. Every one who dissolves the “I” is saved from the abyss and returns to his Interior Star which has always smiled upon him.

It is only with the Holy Alchemy that we can dissolve the “I”. The fundamental base of the Alchemy is the Arcanum A.Z.F. The Angels, Archangels, Seraphim, Powers, Thrones etc., are the precise result of tremendous interior revolutions.

We have already passed through involution (the descent of Spirit into matter). We have already suffered horribly through evolution (the process of the complication of energy).
A total revolution is now urgently needed (the dissolution of the “I”). No-one can be happy until he has reached his Interior Star. It is only through internal revolution that we return little by little to our Super-divine Atom. We pass through the angelic, archangelic, seraphinic, lo goic states etc, until finally the Ray fuses with its star, Ain Soph which glows with happiness.

The abyss is terribly painful. The horrible antithesis of Ain Soph is the abyss, the Kliphos of the Kabalah. The Kliphos are atomic and tenebrous, of the lunar path.

Let us analyse the Primordial Divine Atom from which emanate the Ten Sephiroth of the Kabalah.

If we self-observe, we find:

1. The Physical Body.
2. The Etheric, or Vital Body.
3. The Astral Body, or Body of Desires.
4. The Animal Mental Body.
5. The Essence (trapped within the “I”. Beyond this is the Divine Triad which the human being does not have incar nated).
6. The Causal Body, Human Soul, Manas.
7. The Buddhic Body, Divine Soul.
8. The Atmic Body, the Intimus.

The fifth and sixth are related, because the fifth is a fraction of the sixth.

We have a fraction of the Human Soul incarnated, this is the Essence, or Buddhata.

Atman Himself is the ineffable Being, He who is beyond time, beyond eternity without end, He who neither dies nor reincarnates (that which returns is the ego). Atman is absolutely perfect.

Atman unfolds into the Spiritual Soul, and this unfolds into the Human Soul which is superior Manas. The Human Soul unfolds into the Es sence, Buddhata. These are all principles and that Essence which incar nates in its four vehicles is clothed with them and is trapped in the psy chological “I”, the ego.

The Mental Body, Body of Desire, Etheric and Physical Bodies incorporate the personality. The Essence, on entering into these vehicles, becomes trapped in the ego.
That which returns is a fraction of the Human Soul.

Beyond the Theosophical Triad there is a Ray which unites us with the Absolute. That Ray within each man is the resplendent Dragon of Wisdom, the Internal Christ, the Sephirothic Crown. The Kabalah defines it thus:

                            Kether: The Ancient of Days.
                        Chochmah: The Son, the Cosmic Christ.
                              Binah: The Holy Spirit.

The Sephirothic Crown is the First Triad which emanates from Am Soph.

In the final synthesis, each one of us is nothing more than an atom of Absolute Abstract Space, Ain Soph, which is secretly related with the Pineal Gland, the Sahasrara Chakra, or Church of Laodicea.

We must make a specific differentiation between Ain Soph and Ain Soph Paranishpana;
in the first case interior Self-Realisation does not exist, it does exist in the second.

Any Mahatma well knows that he must dissolve the Solar Bodies before entering the Absolute. The day we are liberated, we leave behind, abandon all of the vehicles.

For what reason do we fabricate the Solar Bodies? Why do we descend to the Ninth Sphere? If we have to abandon the Solar Bodies, then why make something which is not going to be used? Upon the dissolution of each one of those Christic vehicles, a Seed Atom remains. Four Seed Atoms clearly remain in those vehicles. It is indubitable that these atoms correspond to the Physical, Astral, Mental and Causal bodies. It is obvious that the four Seed Atoms are absorbed within the Super-Divine Atom, Ain Soph Paranishpanna, along with the Essence, Spiritual principles, Laws and the Three Primary Forces. Then comes the profound night of Mahapralaya.

Ain Soph without Intimate Seif- Realisation does not possess the four Seed Atoms, is a simple atom of Absolute Abstract Space with only the Three Primary Forces of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit.
Am Soph

The atom of a Master who has liberated himself is very different from an Ain Soph atom without Self- Realisation. At the Dawn of the Mahamanvantara, a Self-Realised One unfolds its bodies, its seeds entering into activity. Having possession of the Solar Bodies they are restored if desired, at any moment. One is given autonomous conscious ness by having fabricated those Bodies.

Ain Soph which possesses the Seed Atoms can reincarnate at the hour it wishes, and is clothed with its Solar Bodies. When it wants to manifest, it emanates those Solar Seed Atoms, and appears in any part of space whatsoever.

There is a formula which defines all and it is this: C.O.N.H.

The four Bodies of an Initiate are four forces. These are four Bodies with which the Seity vests itself when it wishes to manifest.

1. C: Carbon. In Alchemy the letter “C” symbolises the Body of Conscious Will, the Carbon of Occult Chemistry.

2. O: Oxygen. In Alchemy the letter “O” symbolises the True Solar Mental Body fabricated in the Forge of Cyclops. The Oxygen of Sacred Chemistry

3. N: Nitrogen. In Alchemy the letter “N” symbolises the authentic Solar Astral Body, so different from the Body of Desire. It is obvious that the legitimate Sidereal Body is the Nitrogen of Occult Chemistry.

4. H: Hydrogen. In Alchemy the “H” symbolises the Physical Body, the three-dimensional body of flesh and bone.

The four Bodies are in Ain Soph Paranishpanna, the four Bodies emanate from here; with these the Seity is clothed and they are fabricated instantaneously, that is to say, in the moment in which He wishes to work in a world for the good of humanity. He appears as a Self-Realised Master, self-conscious, Lord of Life and of Death.

The Three Primary Forces:

The Holy Affirming: The Father
The Holy Negating: The Son
The Holy Conciliating: The Holy Spirit

They manifest by means of the atoms CON. (carbon, oxygen, nitrogen). The H
(hydrogen) is a force free of the other three, for which reason it is the physical vehicle which serves as an instrument of the Body of Will and the Mental and Astral Bodies.

We do not exaggerate if we stress the transcendental Alchemical idea that Ain Soph Paranishpanna possesses within itself the four Seed Atoms C.O.N.H.

Ain Soph Paranishpanna reconstructs the Chariot of Mercabah (the Solar Bodies) with these four atoms in order to enter any universe when it is necessary.

We should not forget that Mercabah is the Chariot of the Ages, the Celestial Man of the Kabalah.

Consequently, as a corollary, we can and must emphasise that they who have not realised the work in the Ninth Sphere (sex), in reality do not possess the Chariot of Mercabah.

It is unquestionable that everything changes in the field of action of the Prakriti due to the modifications of Triagunamayashakti and that all human beings are also modified in a

positive or negative form. If how ever, we do not fabricate the Chariot of Mercabah, Ain Soph will remain without Intimate Self -Realisation.

They who have not eliminated the Abhaya Samskara, innate fear, will flee from the Ninth Sphere saying to others that the work in the Forge of Cyclops (sex) is useless.

They are hypocritical Pharisees who strain at a gnat and swallow a camel; the failures who neither enter the Kingdom nor permit others to enter. In truth, sex is the stumbling block and rock of scandal.

---

CHAPTER 54, THE TREE OF LIFE

If we observe the Tree of Life as it is written by the Hebraic Kabalists we see Ten Sephiroth. It begins with the Ancient of Days, Kether, who is in the highest position on the Tree; the n comes Chochmah, the second Sephiroth, or Second Logos which is the Cosmic Christ or Vishnu; then comes Binah, the Third Logos, the Lord Shiva. The Rabbis taught that Kether, Chochmah and Binah are the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit, just as depicted in the Tree of Life of the Hebraic Mysteries.

Kether, Chochmah and Binah are the Trimurti and Perfection, are the Divine Triangle, the Beloved Father, the most adored Son, and the very wise Holy Spirit.

After the Divine Triangle there is an abyss, and following this abyss, there is a second triangle made up of Chesed, the fourth Sephiroth, which corresponds to the Intimus, or Atman the Ineffable, speaking in Sanskrit terms. It continues with Geburah, the Rigor of the Law, the fifth Sephiroth, the Buddhi, the Divine Soul which is feminine. Then follows Tiphereth, the sixth Sephiroth, the Human Soul, which is masculine.

As a further development there comes a third triangle, and is represented by Netzach the mind, the seventh Sephiroth. It continues with Hod, the eighth Sephiroth, the Astral Body; further down is Jesod, the ninth Sephiroth, the principal foundation of sex, the vital base of the human organism, the vital body or etheric vehic le, the Lingam Sarira of Theosophy.

Lastly we find the lowest part of the Tree of Life, Malchuth, the tenth Sephiroth, the world or physical body, the body of flesh and bone.

The first triangle is Logoic; Kether, Chochmah and Binah. The second triangle is Ethic;
Chesed, Geburah and Tiphereth. The third triangle is Magic; Netzach, Hod and Jesod.
Malchuth, the physical world, is a fallen Sephiroth.

The first triangle, the Logoic, obviously has its centre of gravity, which is as anyone may see, the Divine Father, the Ancient of Days, Kether. This is the mathematical point in immense, infinite unalterable space. This triangle is the triangle of the Father.

                            THE TREE OF LIFE

If we analyse the second triangle we find that it is Ethic. Why do we call it “Ethic”?
Simply because there ethics, right conduct, predominate. There we know the rigor of the Law; there we come to know good and evil, to know what “good” and “evil” is. This triangle is the world of Pure Spirit, the Hindu Trimurti of Atman, Buddhi and Manas.

Obviously the centre of gravity of this triangle is clear to see. It is the Human Soul. That Soul suffers and is the very human part within us — that is — Tiphereth, which coincides with the causal. This triangle is also denominated the Triangle of the Son. We find there that the Cosmic Christ, Chochmah normally manifests through the Human Soul,

Tiphereth of the Hebraic Kabalah. The third triangle is very interesting. The Magic triangle is made up of the mind, that is Netzach, the Astral Body or Hod and the Etheric Body, that is to say, Jesod, the basic sexual principle of Universal Life. Why is it called a Magic triangle? Because undoubtedly in the Kingdoms of the Mind, of the Astral, and even of the Kliphos or Infernal worlds is where one exercises High Magic.

Without doubt, in Netzach we can find Hermetic Magic and in Hod, Natural Magic.
Other authors think differently. They believe that Natural Magic is in Netzach, the mental world. I must disagree with them in that aspect, because the mind properly defined, is Mercurian. There are authors who are not in agreement with my concepts, they consider it to be Venusian. I am sorry to have to take issue with those concepts, but anyone is able to realise that the mind is Mercurian. So then, Hermetic Magic must be identified with Mercury in the mind, and with respect to Natural Magic, Ceremonial or Ritual Magic etc., we may find it in the Astral world, in the Astral Body.

Where do we find the centre of gravity of the Magic triangle? Obviously it is found in sex, because it is from here that Birth, Death and Regenera tion come. Everything revolves around sex, that is to say, the third triangle has a centre of gravity in sex, or Jesod, which is the fo rce of the Third Logos, sexual potency.

We have thus found that there are three basic centres of gravity in the whole Tree of Life.
In the first triangle it is Kether, the Old Man of the Ages, the centre of gravity of the First Logos.

In the second triangle Chochmah, the Cosmic Christ. the Second Logos, has His centre of gravity in the Human Soul, Tiphereth. In the third triangle, Jesod becomes the centre of gravity of the Holy Spirit, the Third Logos. It is through that sexual force that life arises, that the human body arises, and all of the organisms which have life. Malchuth is already the physical world, it could not exist without the presence of sex due to the fact that we are all children of a man and a woman. Thus, Jesod is the foundation of the Third Logos, the centre where the sexual force of the Third Logos gravitates.

The trees of Eden are two: The Tree of the Science of Good and Evil, and the Tree of Life.

The Tree of the Science of Good and Evil is sex, and this Tree of Knowledge is represented by the sexual organs.

The Tree of Life is the Being and is represented in our physical body by the spinal column.

Every true cultural doctrine must study the two Trees carefully. This is because to study one Tree and to forget the other gives incomplete knowledge which is useless.

What does it serve to study the Being if we do not know about sex? Both Trees are of Eden, and even have common roots. These are the two great Toral Columns of the White

Lodge; Wisdom and Love. Wisdom is the Tree of the Science of Good and Evil and Love is the Tree of Life.

In ancient Egypt the doctrine of the two Trees was studied in depth. The fatal shadow of the Tree of Life is the “I”. The fatal shadow of the Tree of Knowledge is fornication.
People take the shadows to be reality.

He who puts an end to the action of the “I”, realises the Being in himself. He who puts an end to fornication becomes a Christ.

“And the God Jeho vah commanded the man, saying: Of every tree of the gar den thou mnayest freely eat; but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.”(Genesis 2. 16-17.)

“And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired and to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof and did eat, and gave also to her husband with her, and he did eat.” (Genesis 3. 6)

“And the God Jehovah said: “Behold, the man is become as one of us, to know good and evil, and now, lest he put forth his hand and take also of the tree of life, and eat, and live for ever... So he drove out the man; and he placed at the east of the garden of Eden Cherubimns, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep the way of the tree of life.” (Genesis 3. 22-24.)

If man had been able to eat of the delicious fruits of the Tree of Life, we would now have Gods who were fornicators. That would have been the curse of curses, the most terrible sacrifice, the impossible.

The Flaming Sword of Cosmic Justice revolves, alight, menacing, and terrible, guarding the way of the Tree of Life.

Of the Sephirothic Crown of Father, Son and Holy Spirit, the Intimus was born. The Intimus is enveloped in six inferior vehicles which inter penetrate, forming man. All of the faculties and powers of the Intimus are the fruits of the Tree of Life. When man returns to Eden (by the same way as he left) he will be able to eat of the fruits of the Tree of Life. Then he will be able to see God face to face without dying, and the lightning will serve him as sceptre, and the tempests as carpets for his feet.

There are ten waves of life which penetrate and interpenetrate without mixing with each other. Those ten Eternal Emanations are the ten Sephiroth of the Kabalah; the ten branches of the Tree of Life. Now we understand why God put ten fingers on our hands.

The twelve senses of man (7 chakras or Churches + 5 physical senses = 12) are related with our spinal column. The spinal column is the physical exponent of the Tree of Life;
the twelve senses are the 12 fruits of the Tree of Life.

---

CHAPTER 55, THE SEPHIROTH

Chokmah            Ophanim                Cherubims             Wisdom              The Son Binah              Aralim                 Thrones               Intelligence        Holy Spirit Chesed             Hasmalim               Dominions             Love                Inner Self Geburah            Seraphim               Powers                Justice             Divine Soul Tiphereth          Malachim               Virtues               Beauty              Human Soul Netzach            Elohim                 Principalities        Victory             Mental Body Hod                Beni Elohim            Archangels            Splendour           Astral Body Jesod              Cherubim               Angels                Foundation          Vital Body Malchut            Ischim                 Initiates             Kingdom             Phisical Body

The Ten Sephiroth of universal vibration emanate from Am Soph, which is the Microcosmic Star which guides our interior. The Real Being of our Being.

There are in reality twelve Sephiroth which can be spoken of Ain Soph is the eleventh, and its tenebrous antithesis, the abyss, is Sephiroth number twelve.

There are 12 spheres or universal regio ns which penetrate and interpenetrate each other without confusion. The 12 sphe res gravitate in the central atom of the sign of the infinite.

In those 12 spheres Solar Humanity develops. We have already said that the sign of the infinite is to be found in the centre of the Earth, hi its heart. The Sephiroth are atomic, the 10 Sephiroth can be reduced to three tables.

1. Quantum Table of the radiant energy which comes from the Sun.
2. Table of Atomic Weights, of the elements of nature.
3. Table of Molecular Weights, of compounds.

This is Jacobs Ladder which extends from the Earth to the Heavens. All of the worlds of Cosmic Consciousness reduce to the Three Tables.

A Sephiroth cannot be understood in a single plane because its nature is quadruple. The kabalists make this very clear when they say that there are four worlds.

AZILUTH: is the archetypal world, or world of emanations. It is a Divine World.

BRIAH: Is the world of creation, also called Khorcia, or that is, the world of limits.

YETZIRAH: Is the world of formation and of the Angels.

ASSIAH: Is the world of action, the world of matter. Three Sephiroth of form are to be found in the Pillar of Severity (Binah, Geburah, Hod).

Three Sephiroth of energy in the Pillar of Mercy (Chochmah, Chesed, Netzach).

And between these two Pillars is the Pillar of Equilibrium, where are found the different levels of consciousness (Kether, Tiphereth, Jesod, Maichuth).

All of the 10 known Sephiroth come from Sephirah, the Divine Mother who resides in the Heart Temple. It is the mantram of the Divine Mother, and the 10 Sephiroth are 10 emanations of Prakriti.

Kether is the Father within us, a breath of the Absolute, unto Himself profoundly unknown. Kether is the Ancient of Days, and each one of us is, deep down, a blessed Ancient of Days.

Chochmah is the Son, the Atomic Christ in us. Binah is the Mother in us, the Holy Spir it in us.

Kether, Chochmah and Binah are our Sephirothic Crown.

The most beloved Father, the most adorable Son, and the most wise Holy Spirit, live within the depths of our superlative consciousness, awaiting the supreme instant of our realisation.

The Holy Spirit is our Divine Mother who is dressed in a blue mantle and white tunic of exquisite splendour.

The Mother carries in her hand a precious lamp; that lamp is the Intimus which burns within the depths of our hearts. The Intimus is within a vessel of fine and transparent alabaster. That vessel is our own superla tive consciousness, is our Buddhi.

The Intimus is the Sephiroth Chesed; the Buddhi is the Sephiroth Geburah.

The Intimus and the Buddhi have expression through the Human Soul. The Human Soul is Tiphereth, Will, Beauty.

Thus, the Intimus with His two Souls, the Divine and the Human, officiates upon His Throne, which is the cerebro-spinal nervous system. He his crowned with the Sephirothic Crown. The Intimus dwells in His Temple. The Temple of the Intimus has two columns;
Jakin and Boaz. Jakin is the Mind. Boaz is the Astral Body. The Mind is the Sephiroth Netzach. The Astral is the Sephiroth Hod. These two columns of the Temple are maintained upon the Cubical Stone of Jesod. That cubical stone serves as a foundation of the Kingdom of Maichuth.

That cubical stone is the Etheric Body. Malchuth is the Physical Body. Man is thus a complete decade. We have 10 fingers on the hands, 10 Sephiroth and 10 Commandments.

When the Ancient of Days has realised the 10 Sephiroth within Himself, He is transformed into Adam-Kadmon, the Celestial Man.

They who realise the 10 Sephiroth within themselves, shine with ineffable Christic splendours in the world of light.

When the Ancient of Days realises the 10 Sephiroth within Himself, they gleam in the world of light like precious gems, like sparkling stones upon the body of the Ancient of Days.

“He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches; To him that overcoineth I will give to eat of the tree of which is in the midst of the paradise of God.”
(Apocalypse 2.7)

The 10 Sephiroth sparkle like precious stones upon the body of the Ancient of Days. This is how we become the Celestial Jerusalem. “And the foundations of the wall of the city were garnished with all manner of precious stones. The first foundation was jasper; the second, sapphire; the third, a chalcedony; the fourth, an emerald.

The fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh, crysolite; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, a topaz; the tenth, a crysoprasus; the eleventh, a jacinth; the twelfth, an amethyst.”
(Apocalypse 21. 19-20).

The ten Sephiroth are atomic. The ten Sephiroth are the Holy City, Jerusalem which will come to shine in the depths of our heart.

“In the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the river, was there the tree of life, which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yeilded her fruit every month; and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.

And there shall be no more curse: but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it;
and his servants shall serve him.

And they shall see his face; and his name shall be in their foreheads.

And there shall be no night there; and they need no candle, neither light of the sun; for the

Lord God giveth them light; and they shall reign for ever and ever.”
(Apocalypse 22. 2-5).

When man incarnates the Sephirothic Crown within himself, then the Ancient of Days will give him light and he will reign for ever and ever.

However, brethren, from my soul in truth I say to you that no-one reaches the Father but through the Son. The Son is the Atomic Christ in us, is Chochrnah, Divine Christic Wisdom, the Gnosis which glows inthe depth of our heart.

We must inundate all of our vehicles with atoms of a Christic nature; we have to form the Christ within us in order to ascend to the Fathe r, because nobody reaches the Father but through the Son.

Though the Christ were born a thousand times in Bethlehem, it would serve for nothing unless He is born also in our hearts. We have to form the Christ within us so as to enter triumphant and victorious through the gates of the city on Palm Sunday.

Christmas is a Cosmic event which each one of us must realise within ourselves.
Christmas is absolutely individual. There is a necessity for the Christ to be born in us; the Christmas of the Heart is needed. The Tree of the Science of Good and Evil must be transformed into the Sacrificial Lamb of the Holy City.

“Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the tern pie of my God, and he shall go no more out.” (Apocalypse 3.12).

“... be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life.” (thid; 2. 10). “I am that bread of life. I am the living bread. Whoso eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life and I will raise him up at the last day. He that eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in me, and I in him.” (St. John 6. 48, 51, 54, 56).

Christ is truly a Sephirothic Crown of immeasurable wisdom, whose most pure atoms are resplendent in Chochmah, the world of Ophanim.

That Sephirothic Crown without measure, was sent to His Buddha, Jesus of Nazareth, who through innumerable reincarnations, was prepared in our earthly evolution.

It was in the Jordan that the Christic Crown, the Solar Logos shone, entered into His Buddha, Jesus of Nazareth.

Herein lies the mystery of the double human personality, one of the greatest mysteries of occultism.

When a man receives his Sephirothic Crown, then the Ancient of Days gives him light and leads him to the pure waters of life.

No one reaches the Father however, my brethren, except through the Son, and the Son is in the depths of the Ark of the Alliance awaiting the moment of realisation.

That Ark of the Alliance is the sexual organs. It is only through Perfect Chastity that we can form the Christ in us and ascend to the Father. Now, my brethren, I have thus given to you the Ark of the New Testa ment.

I have now taught you the path of Sexual Magic.

“And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and there was seen in his temple the ark of his testament; and there were lightnings, and voices, and thunderings, and an earthquake, and great hail.” (Apocalypse 11.19).

---

CHAPTER 56, KETHER

Each one of us really has, in the depths of his consciousness, a Venerable Ancient. This is the First Logos, to which the kabalists give the name Kether.

The Ancient of Days is androgynous, that is, man and woman at the same time. The first and final synthesis of our Being. The Ancient of Days is the most divine first emanation of Absolute Abstract Space.

The Ancient of Days is unique to each man, and is the Father; there are as many Fathers in Heaven as men on Earth.

The Ancient of Days is the hidden of the hidden; the mercy of mercy, the good of goods, the root of our Being; the “Great Wind”.

The hair of the Ancient of Days contains 13 ringlets. If we add this to gether we will have 1 + 3 = 4; 1 is the masculine principle, fire; 2 is the feminine principle, water; the 3 is the son of creation. This, plus the unity of life equals 4; this is the Holy Tetragrammaton.
This is the name of the Eternal Iod-He-Vau-He.

The beard of the Ancient of Days has 13 locks. That beard represents the hurricane, the 4 Winds, the Breath, the Word. The 4 Winds are Iod-He Vau-He.

Arcanum 13 is the Ancient of Days. Only by overcoming death can we incarnate the Ancient of Days. The funereal tests of Arcanum 13 are more frightening and terrible than the abyss.

In order to realise the Ancient of Days within us, we must totally realise within ourselves Arcanum 13.

We have need of a supreme death and a supreme resurrection in order to have the right to incarnate the Ancient of Days. Only he who has incarnated Him has the right to use internally the hair and the beard of the Venerable Ancient.

Only in the presence of the Angels of Death, after having victoriously passed the funereal tests can we incarnate the Ancient of Days. He who incarnates Him is one more “little elder” in eternity.

The mantram “PANDER” enables us to reach the Ancient of Days. This is possible with profound meditation. In the world of Aziluth there is a marvellous temple where we are given teachings in the magistral pres ence of the Ancient of Days.

The Ancient of Days dwells in the world of Kether; the chief of that world is the Angel Metraton. That Angel was the Prophet Enoch. With His assistance we can enter the world

of Kether. The student who wishes to penetrate into Kether during a state of profound meditation, will pray to the Angel Metraton, and will be assisted.

The Aztec Goddess of Death has a crown with 9 human skulls. The crown is the symbol of the Ancient of Days; the cranium of microcosmic correspondence of the Ancient of Days in man. Really we have need of a supreme resurrection in order to realise the Ancient of Days within ourselves.

In the world of Kether we understand that the Great Law governs all that is created. From the world of the Ancient of Days we see the human multitudes like leaves blown before the wind.

The Great Wind is the terrible law of the Ancient of Days. “Vox Populi Vox Dei”. A social revolt contemplated from the world of the Ancient of Days, is a law inaction. Each person, entire multitudes, appear like leaves stripped from the trees, swept away by the terrible wind of the Ancient of Days.

People do not know of these things. People only preoccupy themselves with obtaining money, and more money. Such is poor suffering human ity, miserable leaves swept away by the Great Wind; wretched leaves carried by the Great Law.

The Ancient of Days is, in His essential root, our authentic Being. He is the Father in us.
He is our true Being. Our disciples must now concen trate and meditate very deeply upon the Ancient of Days. During medi tation they must provoke ecstasy, samadhi.

May Peace reign in your hearts. Let us not forget that Peace is Light. Let us not forget that Peace is an essence which emanates from the Abso lute, is Light which emanates from the Absolute. It is the Light of the Ancient of Days. Christ said: “My Peace I give you; my Peace I leave you”.

---

CHAPTER 57, CHOCHMAH

“Come! Oh Holy Word. Come! Oh Sacred name of the Crestos force. Come! Oh sublime energy. Oh Divine mercy; come! Come supreme Seity of the most high.” (Gnostic Mass).

Chochmah of the Hebraic Kabalah is the Cosmic Christ, the Christus, Vishnu of the Hindus.

The Second Logos Chochmah, is Love, the Agnus Dei, the Sacrificial Lamb. It is the Fire itself, which burns in all creation from the beginning of the world for our salvation. It is fire, and underlies the base of all organic and inorganic matter.

Solar Energy is Astral Light. Its essence is the Christonic Power which is enclosed within the fecundating pollen of the flower, within the heart of the fruit of the tree, in the glands of internal secretion of animal and man. In man its main basis is in the coccyx. The Aztec called this sacred power: the Plumed Serpent of Quetzalcoatl, which only awakens and ascends to our pineal gland by means of Amorous Magic.

Christ is Wisdom itself, is the Solar Logos whose physical body is the Sun. Christ moves with His Sun in the same manner that the human soul moves with its body of flesh and bone. Christ is the light of the Sun. The light of the Sun is the light of Christ.

The light of the Sun is a Christonic substance which makes the plant grow, and the seed sprout. Within the dark hardness of the grain that substance of the Solar Logos is enclosed which enables the plant to reproduce incessantly with a glorious, dynamic and active life.

The bountiful energy emitted from the Solar fire is fixed in the heart of the Earth, and is the vibrant nucleus of the cells of every living creature. It is the Astral Light, the Azoe and the Magnesia of the ancient Aiche mists. The Astral Light penetrates the who le atmosphere and is the on gin of the marvellous powers in man, and of the Sacred Fire of all life. This world with the assistance of the Second Logos, has consciousness, for which cause we also are able to awaken and have consciousness.

Christ is that most pure, ineffable and terribly divine ray, which shone like a bolt of lightning upon the face of Moses there, in the solemn mystery of Mount Nebo.

Christ is not the Monad. Christ is not the Theosophical Septenary. Christ is not Jivatman.
Christ is the Central Sun. Christ is the Ray which unites us with the Absolute.

“I believe in the Son, the Cosmic Crestos, the powerful astral mediation which unites our physical personality with the supreme immanence of the Solar Father.” (Gnostic ritual).

Know that Christ is not an individual. The Cosmic Christ is impersonal, universal, and is beyond individuality, beyond personality and the “I”. It is a Cosmic force which expresses through any man who is properly prepared.

One day, it expressed through the great Jeshua Ben Pandira, known in the physical world as the Master Jesus of Nazareth. It has also expressed through many others.

Christ is a Cosmic Substance, latent in every atom of the Infinite; the substance of Truth.
Christ is Truth and Life.

When a man assimilates Christ substance in the physical, in the psycho logical and in the spiritual, he is Christified, is transformed into Christ, becomes Living Christ. We need to form Christ in us. To incarnate the Truth is urgent.

Amongst the Chinese, Christ is Fu-ji. For the Mexican, Christ is Quetzalcoatl, who was the Messiah. He who transformed the Toltec. For the Japanese, Amida; He who has the power to open the gates of Gokurak (Paradise). In the cult of Zoroaster, Christ is Ahura-Mazda. The Germanic Edda cites Khristos, the God of its theogony as being similar to Jesus of Nazareth, born on Christmas Day, 25th of December at mid night. The same as the Christian are the Nordic Odin, Woden and Belen. The Gospel of Ithrisna of millenarian India is similar to the Christian Gospel. In the old Egypt of the Pharaohs Christ is Osiris, and each one who incarnated Him was an Osirified One. Hermes Trismegistus is the Egyptian Christ; He incarnated Osiris. Every man who attains the as similation of the Christic substance becomes in fact, a Living Christ.

I want you to understand that the Solar Logos is not an individual. The Solar Logos is an Army; the Verb, the Great Word. The Army of the Voice is a multiple unity, eternal, unconditioned and perfect. He is the Creator Logos. He is the first moment.

“In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
The same was in the beginning with God.”

“All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made.
In him was life; and the l was the light of men.”

And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not.”
(St. John 1. 1-5)

He is the Great Breath, emanated from within the entrails of Eternal Absolute Abstract Space. Eternal Absolute Abstract Space is the Being of the Being of all Beings, the Absolute, the Unnameable, Unlimited Space. Each one who incarnates his Christ is Christified and joins the ranks of the Army of the Voice.

“And as Moses lifted up the serpent [upon the staff] in the wilderness, even so must the Son of man be lifted up.” (St. John 3.14)

We must incarnate the Christ in us to be able to ascend to the Father. Nobody reaches the Father but through the Son, in Christ, we are all One. In the Lord there do not exist differences between one man and another because in Him we are all One. In the world of the Lord neither individuality nor personality exist. In Him there are no hierarchical dif ferences. He who incarnates Him is then, He, He, He. “Variety is Unity”. We need to put an end to the personality and to the “I” for the Being to be born in us. We have to put an end to individuality.

If a mystic in a state of ecstasy were to abandon all of his seven bodies so as to investigate the life of Christ, then he would see himself represent ing the drama of the passion of the Lord, doing miracles and marvels in the Holy Land, he will see himself dead, and resurrected on the third day. If that mystic were to take the place of Christ in those instants, he would be He, He, He. This phenomenon is due to the fact that in the world of Christ individuality does not exist, nor personality. In Christ only exists a single Being which expresses as many.

With the end of the “I”, and with individuality, only the values of con sciousness remain, which are the attributes of Eternal Absolute Abstract Space.

Only He may say; “I am the Way, the Truth and Life”.

I am the Light. I am Life. I am the Good Shepherd. I am the Bread. I am the Resurrection.
The Being receives the Being of His Being, the I Am, that breath of the Great Breath in each one of us, our particular ray; He, He, He. The I Am is the Internal Christ of each man, our divine “Augoeides”; the Logos. He who receives the Crown of Life has the right to say; “I Am He, I Am He, I Am He.”

Christ is symbolised by the erect phallus, by the upright spectre of power, by the tower, by the angular stone and by the tunic of glory. He is the Divine origin.

Christ is Love. The antithesis of Love is Hatred. Know, oh cities, peoples and tongues that Hatred becomes fire which bums. Know that the most terrible monster which exists upon the Earth is Hatred.

He who lies sins against the Father who is Truth, and he who hates, sins against the Son who is Love, and he who fornicates sins against the Holy Spirit who is Chastity.

---

CHAPTER 58, BINAH

Hail Sacred Swan! Miraculous Hamsa. Hail Phoenix Bird of Paradise! Hail Immortal Ibis! Dove of the Grail. Creative Energy of the Third Logos! (Gnostic Ritual).

Binah is the Holy Spirit, is the Third Logos, Lord Shiva of the Hindus, who manifests as sexual potency in all that is, has been and will be.

The Holy Spirit is that sexual force which we see within the pistils of the flowers, that which is expressed in the creative organs of all living species; the marvellous force without which the universe could not exist.

The kabalists locate the different Sephiroth of the hebraic Kabalah in the worlds. Thus for example, the Ancient of Days is a point of Infinite Space; as a symbol is eternal.
Chochmah is governed by the zodiac, and is Truth. It is said that Binah is governed by Saturn. Here we have reached a point with which we must dissent. I do not wish to say that the Holy Spirit is not governed by Saturn, that a relationship does not exist between them, because it does. This is not everything however, because without doubt the world of Jupiter is related in a certain manner with Binah, given that it has powers, a throne and washes the Waters of Life.

From Ain Soph the Super-divine Atom emanates Kether, Chochmah and Binah, the Crown of Life, the resplendent Dragon of Wisdom.

When the great Cosmic Night comes the resplendent Dragon of Wisdom will be absorbed into Ain Soph. Here we have the Trinity absorbing it self within the Unity! Here we have the Holy Four, the Tetragrammaton of the kabalists!

The Trinity, the Perfect Triad, Father, Son and Holy Spirit plus the Unity of Life is the Holy Four, the four Eternal Carpenters, the four Horns of the Altar, the four Winds of the Sea, the Holy and mysterious Tetragrammaton whose mantric wo rd is: Iod-He-Vau-He, the terrible name of the Eternal.

The Holy Spirit unfolds into an ineffable woman, this is the Divine Mother clothed in a white tunic and a blue mantle. The Holy Spirit is Shiva the Divine Spouse of Shakti the Divine Mother Kundalini.

The Divine Woman is an ineffable Virgin; this Divine Mother is symbolised for the Aztec by a mysterious Virgin (see the book: “Aztec Christic Magic”, chapter 10). This Virgin has a mysterious mouth at the level of her throat, itso happens that the throat is the Uterus where the Word is gestated; the Gods create with the Larynx.

“In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him; and without him

was not any thing made that was made. In him was life; and the life was the light of men.” (St. John, 1.1-3)

The Verb made the Waters of Life fecund, and the universe in its germinal state came forth splendorous in the aurora.

The Holy Spirit fecundated the Great Mother, and Christ was born. The Second Logos is always the Son of the Virgin Mother.

She is always Virgin; before the birth, during the birth, and after the birth. She is Isis, Maria, Adonia, Insoberta, Rhea, Cibeles, etc.

She is primitive Chaos, the primordial substance, the Materia Prima of the Great Work.

The Cosmic Christ is the Army of the Great Word, and is always born in worlds, and in each one of them, crucified, so that all beings may have life, and have it in abundance.

The Holy Spirit is the Maker of Light: “And God said, let there be light, and there was light.” The esoteric meaning is: “Because he so sayeth, so it was.”

The Earth has nine strata, and in the ninth is the laboratory of the Third Logos. The ninth stratum is really found in the entire centre of the planetary mass, the Holy Eight is here, the Divine Symbol of the Infinite in which is represented the brain, heart and sex of the planetary genie.

A Sacred Serpent is coiled in the heart of the Earth, exactly in the Ninth Sphere. This Serpent is septuple in its form, and each one of its 7 igneous aspects corresponds with each of the 7 Serpents of man.

The creative energy of the Third Logos elaborates the chemical elements of the Earth, with all of its multifaceted complexity of forms. When that creative energy leaves the centre of the Earth, our world will then be come a cadaver. This is how the worlds die.

The Serpentine Fire of man springs from the Serpentine Fire of the Earth. The terrible Serpent sleeps profoundly in its mysterious nest of strange hollow spheres, which in fact resembles a real Chinese puzzle. These are the subtle concentric astral spheres. Truly, just as the Earth has nine concentric spheres, and at the very bottom, the terrible Serpent, so also has man, because he is the microcosmos of the macrocosmos.

Man is a universe in miniature. The infinitely small is analogous with the infinitely large.

Hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen and oxygen are the 4 basic elements with which the Third Logos works. The chemical elements are arranged in order of atomic weight; the lightest being hydrogen whose atomic weight is 1. The last is uranium, whose atomic weight is 238.5, and it is in fact, the heaviest of the known elements.

The electrons serve to form a bridge between Spirit and matter. In itself, hydrogen is the most rarefied element known; the first manifestation of the Serpent. Every element, every food, every organism, is synthetised in a determined type of hydrogen. Sexual energy corresponds to hydrogen 12, and its musical note SI.

Electronic Solar matter is the Sacred Fire of Kundalini. When we liberate that energy, we enter the path of authentic Initiation.

The energy of the Third Logos expresses by means of the sexual organs and by means of the Creative Larynx. These are the two instruments through which the powerful creative energy of the Third Logos flows. When one works with the Arcanum A.Z.F. one awakens the Sacred Ser pent. The ascending flow of the creative energy of the Third Logos is Living Fire. That Pentecostal Fire rises along the length of the spinal column, opening the centres and awakening miraculous powers.

In ancient Mexico, in the temple of the Serpents, named after Quetzalcoatl, the Holy Spirit was worshipped. They used tunics and mantles of white, black and red, and they threw upon the embers of the fire powdered whelks. For this they utilised white, black and red sea shells. The white is Pure Spirit, the black symbolises the fall of Spirit into matter, and the red is the Fire of the Holy Spirit, with which we return to the whiteness of Pure Spirit.

That incense rose towards the heavens; the priest prayed for life, and the plants flourished, because the Holy Spirit is the sexual fire of the universe. This ritual was conducted in the Temple of Quetzalcoatl before sunrise, because the Holy Spirit is the Maker of Light. The priest vocalised the mantra; IN - EN.

The Prophet Jonas also practised the ritual of the Holy Spirit in exactly the same ma nner as the Aztecs, and utilised for it the same vestments and aromatic incense. He also vocalised the same mantra, IN-EN when he placed the incense upon the fire.

This rite should be established in all of the Gnostic sanctuaries. The sea shells are related with the water of the sea and the Water is the dwelling place of the Fire of the Holy Spirit. Thus seashells are the perfect incense of the Holy Spirit.

The Mother or Holy Spirit gives us power and wisdom. The symbols of the Virgin are:
the Yoni, the Chalice and the Tunic of Concealment.

---

CHAPTER 59, CHESED

Chesed itself is the Intimus; according to the Hindus, Atman. It is said that Chesed is governed directly by Jupiter, and none other. That is false, the Intimus is Martian, a warrior, fighter, but many kabalists do not accept this, and may even consider it to be absurd. He who has direct experience of Chesed well knows however, that Chesed is warlike. It is the Intimus which must take part in this struggle to the death against the darkness and must fight hard for His own Intimate Self- Realisation which is at stake.
There is obviously something of the Jovian because He is able to take up the spectre of Kings; this I do not deny. That Chesed should however, be only and exclusively Jovian, is false.

Atman is our Intimus, our divine Seity; that seventh principle which there is in Beings, but which humans do not have.

In order to become fused with Atman the following experience is necessary: to project the Astral body, abandoning the Physical body. One then sheds the Astral body by ordering it “leave me”; this requires will. The Astral body leaves via the spinal column, and we are left in the world of the Mind. Later one sheds the Mental body, ordering it:
“Mental body, leave me”. This is realised by an act of will, and one is left with the Causal body, which one also orders to leave; this also requires a great effort. The body of Conscious Will functions better, and one commands it to leave and to abandon the 33 vertebra, the Buddhic or Intuitional body thus remaining; which is very obedient. It also is commanded to leave, one thus remaining in the world of Chesed, of Atman, the Ineffable. In the world of Atman one feels a Complete Man. Here, the intellectual animal is not a Man. The Initiate feels filled with an immense plentitude. There, in that world he is a “Real Man” in the most objective sense.

The world of Atman is a positive state; its negative part is the physical world. In Atman a city is seen in its most real form; there, a table is seen with all of its parts, above, below, within, from outside; the same is also true for a mountain. In the kitchen one sees the number of atoms which give form to a piece of cutlery, the number of molecules which are con tamed in the bread or meat which one is about to eat. Not only do we perceive solids in an integral form, but also hypersolids, including the exact quantity of atoms which together constitute the entirety of any body.

If the student is not prepared he becomes disappointed, because he finds himself in a world of very crude reality; this is the world of mathemat ics. Here one sees the drama of Nature; here one is a spectator of Nature. The world of mathematics is the world of Atman.

That which thinks is the mind, not Atman. The human mind in its present state of evolution is the animal which we carry within.

The concept of Descartes: “I think, therefore I am”, is completely false because the True Man is the Intimus, and the Intimus does not think because He knows. Atman does not need to think, because He is Omniscient.

Our Intimus is yes, yes, yes. The Wisdom of our Intimus is yes, yes, yes. The Love of our Intimus is yes, yes, yes.

When we say: I am hungry, I am thirsty etc., we are stating an absurdity, because the Intimus has neither hunger nor thirst; that which feels hunger and thirst is the Physical body. The most correct thing to say is that my body feels hunger, my body feels thirsty.

The same thing occurs with the mind when we say: I have a powerful mental force, I have a problem, I have this conflict, I have this suffering, these thoughts occur to me, etc.
We are then making gravely erroneous statements, because these are things of the mind, not of the Intimus.

The True Man is the Intimus, He does not have problems, the problems belong to the mind.

The Intimus must lash the mind with the terrible Whip of the Will. The man who identifies with the mind falls to the abyss.

The mind is a donkey which we must mo unt in order to enter the Celestial Jerusalem.

We must order the mind thus: “Mind, withdraw that problem from me, mind, withdraw that desire, etc. I will not allow it, I am your lord and you are my slave until the end of all time.”

Woe, the man who identifies with the mind because he loses the Intimus, and will end up in the abyss.

They who say that everything is mind commit a very grave mistake, because the mind is only the instrument of the Intimus.

All of those works which tend to identify man totally with the mind are true Black Magic, because the authentic Man is not the mind.

We must not forget that the most subtle and dangerous demons which exist in the universe reside in the mental plane.

The Intimus speaks to the mind thus: “Do not say that your eyes are yours, because I, by means of them, see. Do not say that your ears are your ears, because I, by means of them, hear. Do not say that your mouth is your mouth, because I, through this mouth, speak.
Your eyes are my eyes. Your ears are my ears. Your mouth is my mouth.”

In the Internal worlds we may cast the mental body away from us so as to be able to speak with it face to face, as with a stranger.

We then fully understand that the mind is a strange personage which we must learn to control with the terrible Whip of the Will.

THE LAIR OF DESIRE IS IN THE MIND

The Intimus is the True Man who lives incarnated within every human body, and which we all carry crucified within our hearts.

When man awakens from his dream of ignorance, he then gives himself over to his Intimus, which unites with the Christ, and the man becomes almighty as the Absolute from whence he came.

The Intimus is God in man. The man who ignores this Great Truth is only a shadow; the shadow of his Intimus.

The symbol of the Intimus is the five-pointed Star, the Pyramid, the equilateral Cross, the Sceptre.

---

CHAPTER 60, GEBURAH

Geburah is Rigour, the Law, is the Buddhi, the Spiritual Soul, the Valkyrie of whom that notable Spanish writer, Mario Roso de Luna speaks, is the beautiful Helen, etc.

Geburah, the Buddhi has been considered to be exclusively Martian; this is an error because in the world of the Spiritual Soul which is feminine, there is the Lion of the Law which is Solar. Thus in Geburah we find the rigour of the Law, but we also find the nobility of the Lion, therefore the Intuitional Buddhic world is completely Solar.

Geburah is the Law of justice. The world of Geburah is based injustice. The Masters of Karma base themselves in the “Conscience” in order to judge in the Tribunal of Karma.

The Masters of Karma are judges of Consciousness justice is beyond good and evil.
When you reach the Light, you will know what Love is; and when one knows what Love is, one will know how to Love, and will understand that Conscious Love is Law. There is no value in doing good unless you know how to do it.

The chief of the Archons of the Law is the Master Anubis, who presides with his 42 judges. When they officiate, they use the sacred mask which has the form of the head of a jackal, or feathered wolf, which is an em blem of Truth.

JUSTICE IS THE SUPREME PIETY AND SUPREME IMPIETY OF THE LAW.

In the Tribunal of Karma, he who has the means to pay comes off well in the dealings.
We need to constantly do good works so as to have the wherewithal with which to pay our debts from this and previous lives. It is impossible to elude Justice because the police of Karma is within us; this is the KAOM. Wherever there may be a lack of Love, the KAOM appears, the police, the accuser, who leads us before the Tribunal of the Law.

It is possible to cancel karma with good works. In this manner the Lion of the Law is combated. When an inferior Law is transcended by a superior Law, the superior Law washes away the inferior. Karma is not a mechani cal Law; it can be pardoned. Do good works so as to cancel your debts.

EACH ONE OF US HAS A BOOK IN WHICH THE OFFENCES, PLUS THE DAY AND
HOUR THEY WERE COMMITED, ARE NOTED.

When we reach a point where we are totally harmless, when one is no longer capable of doing harm to anyone, the karma is pardoned.

Karma is a medicine which is given to us. Buddha said that there are three eternal things in life:

1. The Law.

2. Nirvana.

3. Space.

---

CHAPTER 61, TIPHERETH

Tiphereth is the Husband of the Wife, the Superior Manas of Oriental Theosophy, which is none other than the Human Soul, the Causal. It is that Soul which suffers, and which forms the very human part in us.

We must distinguish between that which is the Human Soul and Tiphereth itself. It is very easy to confuse Tiphereth with the Causal. The Causal Body serves as the vehicle of Tiphereth.

Some kabalists expect that the world of Tiphereth, the world of the Human Soul, or correctly said, the world of the Son of Man, is governed by the Sun. It really is not so, because it is governed by Venus; for this reason the Christ is crucified on Good Friday;
and this is something upon which we will need to meditate.

The marriage of Guinevere, the Divine Amazon, the Divine Soul, with the Knight of the Human Soul is a marvellous event. In this we experience a radical transformation, because the Buddhi is like a fine and transparent vessel of alabaster within which burns the flame of Prajnâ (the Being).

The esoteric Hindu texts constantly mention the famous Trimurti, Atman Buddhi-Manas.
This is the Intimus with its two Souls, the feminine Spir itual Soul and the masculine Human Soul.

The source and the basis of High Magic is to be found in the perfect wedding of Buddhi-Manas, be it in the purely spiritual regions or in the terrestrial world.

The authentic Initiatic colleges teach with complete clarity that the beautiful Helen is the Buddhi, the Spiritual Soul of the Sixth Venustic Initia tion; the potential feminine Shakti of the Internal Being. The beautiful Helen of Troy is the same Helen of Goethe’s Faust.

Helen clearly signifies the nuptials of Nous (Atman-Buddhi) with Manas (the Human Soul). This union through which Consciousness and Will are identified confers Divine Powers upon both Souls.

The essence of Atman, of the primordial, eternal and universal Divine Fire is found contained within the Buddhi; which in complete union with Manas establishes the Masculine-Feminine.

He and She, Buddhi and Manas, are the Twin Souls within ourselves (although the intellectual animal still has not incarnated them), the two beloved daughters of Atman.
The eternally enamoured Husband and Wife.

The eternal Lady, the Spiritual Soul, always demands of her knight the Human Soul, all manner of unprecedented sacrifices and prodigies of valour.

Joyful the knight who, after the hard struggle, celebrates his betrothal to Guinevere, the Queen of Jinas!

The intellectual animal, wrongly called “Man”, has incarnated within him a fraction of the Human Soul.

That fraction is called “Essence”; in Japanese Zen it is simply called “the Buddhata”. It is the psychic material with which one can, and must fabricate the Embryo of Gold (see the book: “Mystery of the Golden Blossom”).

The Essence lamentably dreams, lying beneath that motley and grotesque mass of submerged, tenebrous entities which constitute the Ego, the Myself, the Self. That Essence is, however, the Materia Prima with which to fabricate the Soul. Unfortunately this concept has still not been well understood by our Gnostic students.

The Chinese Tao clearly teaches that the Essence, immersed within that whole conjunct of “I-Devils” which form the ego, must pass through incessant Alchemical
transformations in the Ninth Sphere before becom ing transformed into the “Seminal Pearl”.

The Seminal Pearl developing through Sexual Magic and the wonderful work with the Lance of Longinus (to turn the animal ego into cosmic dust) must become the Embryo of Gold.

The marvellous reflection of the sexual energy in the form of a luminous whirlwind, like a ray of light when it is reflected upon hitting a wall, brings about the crystallisation within us of the Flower of Gold, which, as is known, establishes within the Neophyte a Permanent Centre of Consciousness.

The Embryo of Gold, dressed in the Wedding Clothes of the Soul, truly experiences supreme bliss in the instant in which it fuses with the Human Soul. From that instant it is said of us that we are Men with Soul, Sacred Individuals, truly responsible persons in the most complete sense of the word.

In the Embryo of Gold are found condensed all of the experiences of life, and for this reason it clearly originates deep transformations in the immortal pneumatic principles of man. This is how we become Adepts of the White Brotherhood.

The world of Tiphereth is the world of the Will. In that world only the Will of the Father is done; in the heavens as on Earth.

It is a world which is beyond the mind, is of an intense electric blue colour. There exist many other colours, but the fundamental colour is blue.

In that world of natural causes one finds many Bodhisattwas who work under the direction of their Real Being.

In that world Music predominates, Sound. Each one who reaches the Fifth Initiation of Fire becomes an Adept and has permission to enter the World of Music. Here is to be found the Temple of the Music of the Spheres.

One of the Guardians of the abovementioned Temple is a great Master, who, when he lived in the physical world was called Beethoven. He is a great Initiate, his Nine Symphonies are marvellous.

Everyone who reaches this region has to learn the fundamental notions of music because it is the Verb. In that sublime region the Music of the Spheres is heard, which is based in the three measures of Mahavan and Chotavan which maintain the universe within its rhythm. And its pulse is perfect; in that music there can be no error.

There, in the region of Tiphereth is the “Cloth of Veronica”, which signi fies the “Christ Will”, that the Will of the Father must be done.

It is impossible to attain Conscious Will without working in the Ninth Sphere. There are many places where people are submitted to tremendous tortures in order to acquire Conscious Will, however they only succeed in storing a certain amount of energy.

The true Fakir has his Guru, and does not leave Hindustan. The Fakirs acquire many powers, but nothing more. There are some who raise an arm and never again lower it; and there it remains. With these acts they pursue Will; but Will does not come from here, they do not achieve the fabrication of the Body of Conscious Will. All of that miracle-working leads people astray. For that reason the Fakirs are on the wrong path.

Once the Body of Conscious Will is fabricated, one becomes Twice-born.

---

CHAPTER 62, NETZACH

“The Mental Body is the donkey which we must mount in order to enter the Celestial Jerusalem” (V.M. Samael Aun Weor).

“The Mind which is the slave of the senses makes the Soul as useless as a boat which the wind tosses upon the waters”. (Bhagavad-Gita).

Netzach is the Mental World, the Cosmic Mind, the Mind of the Human Being.

There are authors who consider that the mind is Venusian; I must disagree with this, because properly said, the mind is Mercurian. It is possible for anyone to realise that the mind is Mercurian, since Mercury gives Wisdom, gives the Word, etc.

The Mental Body of the human race is now in the dawning of evolution. By observing clairvoyantly the physiognomy of the Mental Body of hu man beings we corroborated this information.

The face of the Mental Body of almost all human beings has an animal appearance. When we observe the customs and habits of the human species we then understand why the Mental Body of people has an ani mal physiognomy.

The lunar Mental Body is of a bestial nature. The Solar Mental is the antithesis, is the Christ Mind.

The lunar Mental Body which we possess is of a bestial nature, and even the animals and plants have it. The only difference there is between the beasts and the inappropriately named “man” is that he has been given intellectuality, whilst the beasts only act instinctively.

The Solar Mental Body is not a vague, abstract body, it is a body of flesh and bone; but of everlasting flesh which does not come from Adam and which can traverse a wall. It must be fabricated in the Ninth Sphere. The Solar Mental is a body of perfection which eats, drinks, assimilates, digests, has its special foods, its nutrition, its development.

In the world of the Mind there are many Temples which must be conquered with the point of the Sword. When one works in the Fourth Initiation of Major Mysteries, one meets with many tenebrous ones, and must fight. When one acquires this body, one receives the grade of Buddha. The Blessed Mother of the World presents the person in the Temple of the Mind saying: “Here is my beloved Son, here is a new Buddha”. She then places upon her Son the diadem of Shiva and the yellow robe of the Buddha.

Sanat Kumara, the illustrious founder of the Great College of Initiates of the White Lodge, then exclaims: “You have been liberated from the four bodies of sin and have

penetrated into the world of the Gods, you are a Buddha; when man frees himself from the four bodies of sin he is a Buddha”. He then presents him with the Globe of the Imperator which is surmounted by a Cross.

Our disciples must exchange the process of reasoning for the beauty of comprehension.
The process of reasoning divorces the mind from the Intimus. A mind divorced from the Intimus falls into the abyss of Black Magic.

Many times the Intimus gives a command, and the mind rebels with its reasoning. The Intimus speaks in the form of intuitive feelings or thoughts; the mind rebels, reasoning and comparing.

Reasoning is based in opinion, on the battle of antithetical concepts, in the process of conceptual choice etc.

Reason divides the mind between the battle of antitheses. Antithetical concepts turn the mind into a battlefield. A mind divided by the battle of reasoning, by the antithetical struggle of concepts, has its understand ing broken up, the mind thus becoming a useless instrument for the Being, for the Intimus.

When the mind is unable to serve as an instrument of the Intimus, it then serves as instrument of the animal “I”, changing man into a blind and torpid being, a slave of the passions and sensorial perceptions of the external world.

The most torpid and passionate beings which exist upon the Earth are precisely, the great intellectual reasoners.

The intellectual, because of the lack of a full stop or a comma, loses the meaning of a sentence.

The intuitive person knows how to read where the Master does not write, and to hear where the Master does not speak.

The reasoner is a total slave of the external senses, and his soul is disabled like a boat which the wind tosses upon the waters.

The spiritual reasoners are the most unhappy beings who exist upon the face of the Earth.
They have the mind completely crammed full of theories and more theories, and they suffer horribly upon being unable to realise any of what they have read.

Those poor beings have a terrible pride; and usually end up separating themselves from the Intimus and becoming Tantric personalities of the abyss.

If we take the mind of any theorising pseudo-esoterist student and carefully examine it, we find that it is a real walking library.

If we then carefully examine the coccygeal Church of Ephesus, or the Muladhara Chakra, we find that the Kundalini is totally enclosed there, without the slightest indication of any awakenment, and if we examine the Sushumna Channel of the student we find not even a trace of Sacred Fire. We find that the 33 chambers of the student are completely full of darkness.

This internal examination would carry us to the conclusion that the abovementioned student is lamentably wasting his time.

The Mental Body of the student will be a real library, but the 33 chambers of his spinal colunm will be totally extinguished and in profound darkness.

Conclusion: this student is an inhabitant of the darkness, of the abyss... Intellectuals are filled with pride, arrogance and sexual passion. The in tellect is based in reason, and reason is luciferic and demonic. There are they who believe that through it they may know God; we say that only God knows Himself.

It is better to practice inner meditation than to waste time reasoning.

With inner meditation we are able to speak with God, the Intimus, the Being, the Almighty; thus we can learn from the Internal Master, thus we can study Divine Wisdom at the feet of the Master.

The process of reasoning breaks the delicate membranes of the Mental Body. Thought must flow silently, serene and complete, without the battle of antithesis, without the process of reasoning which divides the mind between opposite concepts.

We must put an end to reasoning and awaken intuition, only in this way can we learn the true wisdom of God, only thus does the mind rest in the hands of the Intimus.

The true positive function of the mind is Art, Beauty, Love, Music. The mystic art of the love of divine architecture, of painting, of song, of sculp ture, of technology placed at the service of man; but without egoism or evildoing, without hatred etc.

The intellect is the negative function of the mind, is demonic. The first thing that anyone who commences these studies wishes to do, is to dominate the minds of others. This is pure and genuine Black Magic. No-one has a reason to violate the free will of others. No-one should exercise coercion over the mind of another, because that is Black Magic.

Those who are responsible for this grave error are all those mistaken authors who are to be found everywhere. All those books of hypnotism, magnetism and suggestion are books of Black Magic.

He who does not know how to respect the free will of another is a Black Magician. They who work mentally so as to violently dominate the mind of another become perverse demons. They become separated from the Intimus and tumble down to the abyss.

We must free the mind from all manner of preconceptions, desires, fears, hatreds, schools, etc. All of those defects are shackles which anchor the mind to the external senses.

The process of reasoning must be exchanged for the quality of discernment. Discernment is direct perception of the Truth, without the process of reasoning.

Discernment is comprehension without need of reasoning. We must exchange the process of reasoning for the beauty of comprehension.

The mind must become completely childlike, must become a beautiful child.

The symbols of Netzach are: the Lamp, the Girdle, the Rose.

---

CHAPTER 63, HOD

Hod is the Astral World, the Astral Body.

The Astral is governed by the Moon; it is due to this that astral projection is made easier with the waxing Moon, and a little more arduous with the waning Moon.

The astral plane is really the plane of Practical Magic. In some tribes, for example in the deepest jungles of the Amazon, the Piaches, Sorcerer- Priests, give the people a special substance to enable them to enter the astral plane at will.

They mix the ashes of the tree called Guarumo with the well pounded leaves of the Coca (Erithroxilon Coca L.) plant. They administer this when the Moon is waxing, and thus bring about astral separation. The Piaches well know that Hod, the astral, is governed by the Moon. Many kabalists however, con sider that it is governed by Mercury, and they are mistaken.

The messages which descend from the world of Pure Spirit become symbolic in the astral plane. These symbols are interpreted according to the Law of Philosophical Analogy, the Law of Analogy of Opposites, the Law of Correspondences and Numerology. Study the Book of Daniel and the biblical passages of the Patriarch Joseph, son of Jacob, so that you may be able to learn to interpret your astral experiences.

The legitimate and authentic Astral Body is the Solar Astral. The Body of Desire, which is of a lunar nature has been called the Astral Body.

All the creatures of nature are lunar, they possess a lunar astral which is a cold, protoplasmic body, a bestial remnant of the past.

What we need to do is fabricate the authentic Body of Hod, the legitimate astral, a vehicle of Solar nature. It must be fabricated in the Ninth Sphere, working in the Fiery Forge of Vulcan.

The Astral Body is a body of flesh and bone which does not come from Adam. It is a body which eats, digests, assimilates.

There are various pseudo-esoteric and pseudo-occultist authors who make the mistake of confusing the ego with the Astral Body.

Modern metaphysical literature speaks a lot about projections of the Astral Body; we must however, have the valour to recognise that the enthusiasts of occultism usually project within the ego in order to travel in the sub- lunar regions of nature through time and space.

With the Solar Astral we are able to move through the Milky Way to the central Sun, Sirius. It is forbidden to us to go beyond the Milky Way because in the other galaxies different types of Cosmic Laws exist which are unknown to the inhabitants of this galaxy.
On Sirius there is a great Temple where the great Masters of this galaxy receive an Initiation. The disciples of the God Sirius are Gnostic Rosicrucia ns. The true Rose Cross is in the Superior Worlds. These disciples utilise the Holy Grail upon their capuches.
They also celebrate the Drama of Christ because this is a Cosmic Drama.

Our disciples must acquire the power to project the Astral Body. That power is acquired by vocalising for an hour, daily, the sacred mantram: “EGIPTO”.

The vowel “E” makes the thyroid gland vibrate and confers upon man the power of occult hearing. The “G” awakens the chakra of the liver, and when this chakra has reached its full development, a man may then enter and leave the body whenever he wishes.

The vowel “I”, combined with the letter “P”, develops clairvoyance in man, and the power which enables man to project the Astral Body through the Window of Brahma, which is the pineal gland. The letter “T” strikes upon the vowel “O”, which is intimately related with the chakra of the heart, and thus man is able to acquire the power to detach himself from this plexus and leave in the Astral Body.

The correct pronunciation of the mantram is: EEEEGGGGIIIIIIPTOOOO. They who have not yet been able to project the Astral Body with the keys we have given, are unable to do so because they do not have that power. So, they must firstly acquire it by vocalising for an hour daily the mantram “EGIPTO”. This mantram develops totally the chakras related with the projection of the Astral Body, and the disciple thus acquires the power of astral projection. The disciple will be able to enter and leave the physical body at will.

The Egyptian mantram which is used for astral projection is the following: “FARAON”.
This mantram is vocalised in those moments of transition between waking and sleep, having the mind upon the pyramids of Egypt.

The correct pronunciation of this mantram is:

                    FAAAAAARRRRRAAAAAAOOOOOONNNNNN.

This mantram is for astral projection, and as we have already said, it is pronounced during the states of transition between being awake and asleep, concentrating the mind upon the pyramids of Egypt. However, the disciples who do not have the power to project the Astral Body must first acquire it by vocalisirig the mantram “EGIPTO” for an hour daily, as we have already stated.

---

CHAPTER 64, JESOD

“He who has his testes crushed, or hath his virile member cut off, shall not enter into the congregation of the Lord.” (Deuteronomy 23. 1)

“The woman also with whom man shall lie with emission of semen, they shall both bathe themselves in water, and shall be unclean until the even.” (Leviticus 15. 18)

“Thus shall ye separate the children of Israel from their uncleanness (fornication) that they die not in their uncleanness (spilling the semen) when they defile my tabernacle (the sexual organs) that is among them”. (Leviticus 15. 31)

Jesod is the Vital, or Etheric Body. Jesod is the foundation of the Third Logos, the centre where the sexual force of the Third Logos gravitates. The sexual forces, the living fount within our physiology, gravitates in Jesod; the Holy Spirit is here.

It is necessary to state that if we consider Jesod as a foundation, it is obvious that here the sexual organs are to be found. The Vital Body, that is, the base of biological, physical and chemical activities, is something else again, which is in some manner influenced by Jesod. Nonetheless Jesod is the sexual organs.

The Perfumes and Sandals are the symbol of Jesod.

The Secret of Secrets is in the mysterious Shemah Hamphoraseh stone of the Hebrews.
This is the Philosophical Stone of the Alchemists. This is sex. This is Sexual Magic; love.
Blessed be love.

The Bible recounts that when Jacob awoke from his dream he consecrated the Stone, anointed it with oil and blessed it. Really, from that moment, Jacob began to practice Sexual Magic. Later in time, he incar nated his Internal Master, his Real Being; Jacob is the Angel Israel.

The wise ancients worshipped the Sun in the symbolic form of the Black Stone. This is the Heliogabalus Stone.

The Philosophical Stone is the foundation of science, of philosophy and of religion.

The Philosophical Stone is squared like the Celestial Jerusalem of Saint John. Upon one of its faces is the name of Adam, upon the other, Eve, and those of Azoe and INRI upon the other two sides.

The Philosophical Stone is very sacred.

THE MASTERS ARE SONS OF THE STONES.

The Mysteries of sex enclose the key to all power. Each one who comes to life is the son of sex. Jesus said to Peter: “And I say also unto thee, that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.” (Matthew 16. 18).

No-one can incarnate the Christ without having built the Temple upon the Living Rock (sex).

We must raise the Seven Colunms of the Temple of Wisdom. Upon each one of the seven columns of the Temple is written with letters of fire the word INRI (Ignis Natura Renovatur Integra).

“And he sent Peter (whose Gospel is sex) and John, (whose Gospel is the Word) saying, Go and prepare the passover, that we may eat.” (Luke 22. 8). The secret name of Peter is Patar, with its three consonants which in high esoterism are the roots P.T.R.

The P serves to remind us of the Father (Lat: Pater), the Ancient of Days of the Hebrew Kabalah, of the Fathers of the Gods, of our fathers or Phitaras.

The T or Tau is the Cross- letter, well-known in sex- yoga. It is the Divine Hermaphrodite, man and woman united in the sexual act.

The letter R is the vital letter in INRI, it is the Sacred Fire and is terribly divine, it is the Egyptian Ra.

Peter, the disciple of Jesus the Christ, is Aladdin, the marvellous exponent who is authorised to lift away the Stone which seals the Sanctuary of the Great Mysteries.

It is impossible to roll away the Stone, to lift it, if we have not previously given to it a cubical form using the chisel and hammer.

Peter, Patar, the illuminator, is the Master of Sexual Magic, the kindly Master who always awaits us at the entrance of the terrible Path. Peter dies crucified upon the Inverted Cross with his head pointing down wards, and his feet upwards to invite us to descend to the Ninth Sphere so as to work with the Fire and the Water which are the origin of worlds, beasts, men and Gods. Every authentic White Initiation begins here. The doctrine of Peter is the doctrine of sex, the Oriental science of Maithuna, Sexual Magic, the Living Stone, the Crag. The Rock is the sex, upon which we must raise the Internal Temple for the Intimate Christ, our Lord.

Peter said: “Behold, I lay in Sion a chief corner stone, elect, precious: and he that believeth on him shall not be confounded.

“Unto you therefore which believe he is precious: but unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner, and a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offence”. (First Epistle of Peter 2. 6-8).

Jesus the Christ said: “Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock (sex).

“And the rain descended, and the floods caine, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not for it was founded upon a rock (sex).

“And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand. (All manner of theories, all types of practices, with the total exclusion of Maithuna or Sexual Magic).

And the rain descended, and the floods caine, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell: and great was thefall of it” (Matthew 7.24-27).

Millions of persons in the world build upon the sand and abhor Sexual Magic. They do not wish to build upon the Rock, upon the Stone, they build upon the sand of theories, schools, etc, and believe that they do well. Those poor mistaken people although sincere, and with good in tentions, will fall to the abyss.

Without the doctrine of Peter the Second Birth is impossible. We the Gnostics study the doctrine of Peter.

Many are they who, sincerely mistaken, believe that they can Self- Realise with the exclusion of sex.

Many are they who speak against sex, who insult sex, who spew forth all of their defamatory drivel in the Sacred Sanctuary of the Third Logos.

Those who abhor sex, those who say that sex is gross, filthy, animal, bestial, are the offenders, the ones who blaspheme against the Holy Spirit.

“Flee fornication (spilling the semen). Every sin that a man doeth is without the body;
but he that comnmnitteth fornication sinneth against his own body”. (1 Corinthians 6.
18).

“Wherefore I say unto you, All manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men:
but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven unto men neither in this world, neither in the world to come.” (Matthew 12. 31- 32; Mark 3. 28-29).

“For if we sin willfully after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins”. (Hebrews 10. 26-31).

He who declares himself against Sexual Magic, he who spits forth his infamy in the Sanctuary of the Third Logos, will never be able to attain the Second Birth.

In the western world there are many people who mortally hate Sexual Magic; these persons justify their absurd abhorrence on many pretexts. They say that the so-called Maithuna is only for orientals, and that we westerners are not prepared. Such people declare that the only thing which can result from this teaching of sex-yoga is a horde of black magicians.

The interesting thing about all this is that such reactionary, conservative, regressive and backward types of people do not say a single word against fornication, against adultery, against prostitution, against homosexual it masturbation, etc., etc. All of this seems to them the most normal thing and they find nothing whatsoever against miserably wasting the sexual energy.

Sex itself should be the most elevated creative function. Unfortunately, ignorance reigns supreme, and humanity is very far from understand ing the Great Mysteries of sex.

If we study the Book of the Heavens, the marvellous Zodiac, we are able to understand that the new Aquarian Era is governed by the zodiacal sign of Aquarius, the Water-bearer.

The symbol of Aquarius is a woman with two pitchers filled with water; she is trying to wisely mix the waters of the two pitchers (see Arcanum 14).

This symbol serves to remind us of Sexual Alchemy. If in Pisces man was simply a slave of the sexual instinct, symbolised by the two fish in the waters of life, in Aquarius man must learn to transmute the sexual forces.

Aquarius is governed by Uranus (Ur = Fire, Anas = Aqua [Water]); the planet which governs the sexual functions. It is incongruent and absurd that some isolated individuals and certain pseudo-esoteric type schools reject the Maithuna, and yet nonetheless claim to be, as they say, initiating the New Era.

Uranus is totally sexual, and in the New Era governed by this planet the human being must know the Mysteries of Sex in depth.

Multitudes of schools of Black Magic exist; many of these with most venerable traditions, which teach Sexual Magic with the spillage of semen. They have most beautiful theories which attract and captivate, and if the student falls for this seductive and delightful deception, he becomes a Black Magician. These black schools affirm to the four winds that they are white, and it is for this reason that the ingenuous fall victim.

These schools also speak beautifully of love, charity, wisdom etc, etc. Naturally in such circumstances, the naive disciple comes to firmly believe that there is nothing bad or

perverse about such institutions. Remember good disciple, that the abyss is filled with those who are sincerely mistaken, and of people with very good intentions.

To reject the Maithuna means in fact to declare oneself against the sign of Aquarius governed by Uranus, the King of Sex.

Christian Esoterism, the secret doctrine of the Saviour of the World, is completely unknown to the ignorant fornicators of reactionary pseudo-occultism.

The pseudo-esoteric and pseudo-occultist reaction does not take into account that the primitive Gnostic Chr istian sects practised the Maithuna. Sexual Magic was taught in all of the ancient western Mystery Schools. The Maithuna was known as part of the Templar Mysteries, within the Mysteries of the Aztec, Maya, Inca, Chibcha, Zapotec Araucanian, Toltec, within the Mysteries of Eleusis, the Mysteries of Rome, of Mithras, Carthage, Tyre, within the Celtic Mysteries, Phoenician, Egyptian, Druidic, and all of the primitive Christian sects such as the Essenes who had their convent on the banks of the Dead Sea, and one of whose most exalted members was Jesus, the Divine Rabbi of Galilee.

The Maithuna, Sexual Magic, is universal, is known in the Mysteries of the North and the South, of the East and the West of the world. The fornicating, regressive reactionary pseudo-occultists, violently reject it however.

The Foundation Stone of the authentic and legitimate Mystery Schools is the Maithuna, Arcanum A.Z.F, or Sexual Magic.

---

CHAPTER 65, MALCHUTH

Malchuth is the Physical Body, the physical world, it is very important to remember that the Vital Body is none other than the superior part of the Physical Body. They who do not accept that concept think that the physical body is a separate body, and the vital, a very different one. Thus they are describing an order which is slightly incorrect.

Malchuth is the Kingdom, the Regent is Changam, the Genie of the Earth. Every planet gives seven races. Our Earth has given five; thus two are yet to come. After the seven races our Earth, transformed by great cataclysms, will, over millions of years, become a new moon. All the involutive and evolutive life on Earth came from the Moon. When the Great Life aban doned the Moon, it died; became a desert.

Seven great races existed on the Moon. The lunar soul, lunar life, is now involut ing and evoluting on our present day Earth. This is how the worlds reincarnate. The Gods of Nature have worked a great deal in order to create self-conscious beings. The Gods had to conduct difficult experiments in the laboratory of Nature. From those test-tubes of the great laboratory came forth different forms of animal; some with the purpose of elaborating matter for the creation of man, others forming the residue of semi- human beings, and still others, true human failures.

Really all of the living species, with the exception of a few, are the living waste of the human kingdom. All of the animals of this Kingdom of Malchuth characterise some aspect of man. All animals are true off spring of the human being.

It is good to know however, that the struggle of the Gods to create Man has not ended.
The human being, or so-called human, has to rid himself of much which will be found in the zoological gardens of the future.

We must know that the Real, is the Being, the Intimus, the Spirit. There exists in us however, a discordant factor; this is the “I”, the ego, the Myself. To understand that the “I” is pluralised is something interesting. The “I” is made up of many “I’s” which quarrel among themselves, and which fight for Control of the human personality. These “I” are “3”, are “7” and are “Le gion”.

The basic Three are: the Demon of Desire, the Demon of the Mind, and the Demon of Ill-Will.

The Seven are the Seven Capital Sins: Anger, Avarice, Lust, Envy, Pride, Laziness and Gluttony.

The Legion is made up of all those thousands of secondary sins. The three, the seven and the legion are small “I’s”, animal elements cre ated by the mind. These animal elements are the enemies which live within our own house. These animal elements live within the

Kingdom of our Soul, and nourish themselves with the inferior substances of our lower animal depths.

The most serious thing is that these animal elements have stolen part of our consciousness. The following statements demonstrate this: I am angry, I covet, I desire, I feel envious, etc.

The True Being is the Spirit, but it has not yet entered man because the “I” has invaded the Kingdom of the Soul. Really, neither the Soul, nor the Spirit has incarnated in man.
Man, so-called man, is still only a possibility.

The True Man is still in the process of creation. Many examples of the human races of today will be in the zoological gardens of the future. Much that we have of the animal within us must be discarded so as to really attain the human state.

When we put an end to our sins, the “I” is dissolved. When the “I” is dissolved, the Soul and the Spirit is incarnated in man. We are then really Men in the most complete sense of the word.

When death comes, the only thing which continues is the “I”, the legion of the “I”. The ego, or “I” returns to satisfy desires. Death is the return to conception. This is the Wheel of Arcanum 10.

The True Man, he who has incarnated his Soul and his Spirit, lives com pletely awake after death in his Astral Body. He takes pleasure in the internal worlds of Consciousness and Objective Perception.

The phantom of those who have still not dissolved the “I”, nor incarnated the Soul and the Spirit, lives in the internal worlds with the con sciousness asleep. They only have subjective consciousness and perception.

The physical world is the vale of bitterness, the Kingdom of Malchuth, the Kingdom of Samsara. The Wheel of Samsara turns incessantly, and the ego comes and goes, disincarnates and returns; always suffering, always searching without finding. Arcanum 10, the Wheel of Retribution is terrible, and everyone is a slave of that fatal Wheel of the Ages.

He who wishes to free himself from the fatal Wheel of Samsara must dissolve the “I” and incarnate his Soul.

This work is most difficult, and very few are they who achieve it. The Kingdom of Malchuth is really a terrible filter. The refuse of the filter is the common place, and is swallowed by the abyss. The gold, the select, the True Man, the Angel is that which is conceived, and the struggle is really terrible.

Nature is implacable, and the birth of a Man-Angel costs thousands, or better said, millions of victims. “Many are called, but few are chosen.” Christ said: “Of the thousand who seek me, one finds me; of the thousand who find me, one follows me; of the thousand who follow me, one is mine.”

Krishna said: “Amongst thousands of men, perhaps one makes the ef fort to achieve perfection; and from amongst the thousands who make the effort perhaps one truly knows me.”

This is the tragedy of Arcanum number 10 of the Kabalah.

The symbols of Sephiroth Malchuth are: the Two Altars, the Equilateral Cross, the Magic Circle, the Triangle of Magic Art. Malchuth is related with the feet and the anus.

---

CHAPTER 66, THE KLIPHOTH

“The Inferno is the womb of Heaven. From putrefaction is born the beauty. Lucifer gives us the light when we are victorious over him”.

It has already been said the Sephiroth are really twelve in number, Ain Soph is the eleventh, and its antithesis, its fatal shadow, is the abyss, the twelfth Sephiroth, the Kliphoth of the Kabalah.

Below Malchuth, the physical world, are the Kliphoth, which are the infernal worlds.

The word Inferno comes from the Latin “infernus”, which means infe rior region. Within every planet the submerged Mineral Kingdom exists with its own atomic Infernos. The latter are always to be found within the interior of any planetary mass, in the infradimensions of nature be neath the three-dimensional zone of Euclid.

The abyss is really the Avitchi of the Hindus, the Nordic Inferno of Ice, the Chinese Inferno with all its yellow tortures, the Buddhist Inferno, the Mohammedan Inferno, the Egyptian Amenti, the tenebrous Tartarus, Avernus, etc. These different traditional Infernos allegorise in a clear form the submerged Mineral Kingdom.

Everyone has heard of spiritualism, of the sabbaths of the sorcerers and witches. There are those who see this as something strange, others as stories which cause one to smile.
The crude reality however, is that the medieval witches’ sabbaths and the famous witches of midnight are more real than we might think. Those hags (calchonas as they are called in strictly academic Hispanic language) obviously belong to the world of the Kliphoth.
Their governess was precisely Maria of the Antilles, so well-known in the ancient medieval convents. Those witches of the ancient witches’ sabbaths called her “Santa Maria”. I investigated that strange creature in the world of the Kliphoth; how she was able to spend her life with so many Black Magicians, how she was able to be present at so many witches’ sabbaths. I never saw in her however, that which one could call perversity.

The tenebrous of the left hand the sub-lunar creatures rendered cult to her, and considered that magician not as someone tenebrous, but as a saint. I wanted to know what truth there had been in that; the alleged sanctity of a creature who was involved with darkness, who is mentioned in so many witches’ sabbaths and monasteries of the Middle Ages. Who of those who have occupied themselves with the study of old accounts of medieval High and Low Magic has not at some time heard of Maria of the Antilles? There are so many secrets hidden within the dust of many libraries.

Of course I knew I had to clarify this, and precisely in the world of Tiphereth, I clarified it when I invoked that entity.

I was heard, and to my surprise I met with a Self- Realised Master. I then understood that she had emanated her bodhisattwa from herself, and that this bodhisattwa was versed in the practice of Magic, in the Magic Triangle or the Third Triangle, and was passing through rigorous training, beginning in the Kliphoth, but without doing harm to anyone.

Afterwards, I made direct contact with her bodhisattwa, with Maria of the Antilles, and when I invited her to visit the world of Nirvana, she gladly accepted my invitation.

Once she had fused with her Real Being, the Secret Master, I then saw that this was a matter of a being who had attained perfection in High Magic. Although she may have lived in the world of the Kliphoth, she did so to conclude her learning or psychological training, exercising tremendous powers, but without doing evil.

When one observes that personage, one has to appreciate her Real Be ing. One realises that the Being is an extraordinary White Magician, knowing in depth the Kingdoms of Light, the world of Malchuth, or the world of the Kliphoth.

The Third Triangle is that of practical magic, and this is a work which must be understood, because prejudices must be put aside in order to be able to work in the world of the Kliphoth.

The adverse Sephiroth are the Kliphoth; the demons are here, the con demned souls, they who suffer, they who have already used their cycle of existences, and who involute in time, the fallen Angels, the tenebrous of the lunar path, the Black Lodge, and all the adepts of the left hand, the henchmen of Lucifer and Ahriman, the followers of the Bons and Dugpas, the enemies of the Fourth Way the Nicolaitans and the Anagarika Tantrics undoubtedly, they who develop themselves in High Magic also live in the Kingdom of the Kliphoth.

The Kliphoth are the Sephiroth inverted, the Sephiroth in their negative aspect, the virtues inverted. For example the qualities of Geburah are rigor, the Law; and inverted are tyranny, dictatorship. A prostitute many times gives herself to men being charitable here we have the principle of the Sephiroth inverted. The charity of Chesed inverted can be indulgence of the crime.

The Kliphoth of the Kabalah are in the Kundartiguador Organ, within Malchuth, the physical world, within the interior of the Earth.

---

CHAPTER 67, DAATH, TANTRIC KNOWLEDGE

Some kabalists stress the idea that Binah, the Holy Spirit, is feminine such a statement is erroneous. In the Divine Comedy it clearly states that the Holy Spirit is the Husband of the Divine Mother. So it is then that the Holy Spirit in turn divides into His Wife, the Hindu Shakti.

One must know how to understand this. Many, upon noting that the Third Logos divides into the Divine Mother Kundalini, or Shakti, who has many names, have thought that the Holy Spirit is feminine, and have thus been mistaken. He is masculine, but upon dividing into She, the first ineffable divine couple is formed; the Creator Elohim, the Kabir or Great Priest, the Ruach Elohim who according to Moses, cleansed the Waters at the beginning of the world.

The Hebrew kabalists speak to us of the mysterious Daath which appears upon the Tree of Life, to which no name is ever given, neither any form of Angelic Host, and which has neither a worldly sign, planet nor element.

Daath, the Hebrew Sephiroth of mystery is formed by the esoteric con junction of Shiva-Shakti, Osiris-Isis, who are perpetually united in Jesod, the Foundation, the Ninth Sephiroth, the Ninth Sphere, sex; but which is hidden by the Mystery of Daath which holds Tantric Knowledge. This knowledge is realised with the Sahaja Maithuna or Sexual Magic, which when correctly used, permits the Intimate Self- Realisation of the Being.

It is necessary that we all reflect profoundly, that we comprehend all this in depth. He and She are united in the Cubical Stone of Jesod, which is sex. From the union of He and She arises perfect Tantric Knowledge, with which we may Self-Realise internally in all of the levels of the Being.

Some kabalistic authors assume that Daath, the Sephiroth which gives knowledge and wisdom, comes from the fusion of Chochmah, the masculine Cosmic Christ, with Binah, which they consider to be exclusively feminine. This assertion is absolutely false, because the Holy Spirit is really masculine; it is only upon dividing into the Divine Mother that the perfect pair is formed.

Tantric Knowledge, Tantric Initiation evolves in the Cubical Stone of Jesod in the Ninth Sphere. By means of the Tantras it is possible to develop the Serpent along the spinal column.

We need to be practical in these studies of the Kabalah. There are authors who write marvellous things; ho wever upon seeing this one realises that they have not lived what

they have written, they have not experienced it within themselves, and for this reason, they make mistakes. I consider that one must write about tha t which one has directly experienced for oneself; for my part, I have gone about things in this way.

The Cubical Stone of Jesod, located in the creative organs is clearly that metallic soul which results from sexual transmutations. We may call it the Mercury of Secret Philosophy, or speaking in more simple terms, creative energy. This energy is allegorised, or symbolised by the Devil. When we say that we have to work with the Devil it is in order to transform him into Lucifer, the Giver of Light.

We are clearly referring to the work in the Great Work. It is interesting that it should be exactly in the Cubical Stone of Jesod where Shiva and Shakti, Osiris and Isis sexually unite, and it is there precisely where Tantric knowledge is found, without which it is not possible to attain the Intimate Self-Realisation of the Being.

In Oriental Tibet the monks are extreme, for which reason H.P.Blavatsky thought that they were Black Magicians. We have all repeated that mistake, and we see the need to correct it.

I am not saying that the Dugpas are saints, gentle lambs; they are Black Magicians because they teach black Tantrism. The Bons however, al though they wear the red cap, are not black as Blavatsky mistakenly supposed. It is clear that if one of the Bons does not want Self-Realisation, but rather to free himself for a time to later return, for example, in the Sixth Root Race, or even never desires to Self-Realise, but only to free himself without Self- Realisation, then he will attain it.

Firstly, the neophyte is taken to an isolated place and all of the inhuman elements which he possesses are invoked. This is done with procedures of High Magic, and in the isolation of the mountain, they make themselves visible and tangible, and attempt to devour the neophyte. If he however, remains serene, there is nothing more to be done he has triumphed. He then has to eliminate the ego, reduce it to ashes, and work for this.

The test and the greatest of all their efforts in the physical world consists in certain mantra of disincamation, which are formed of two words. It is terrifying to see the Bon priest dressed in his white apron, covered with skulls, with bones of the dead, upon his head a red turban and in his right hand a dagger.

At the moment that the neophyte pronounces his two fatal mantra, his body
instantaneously dies and he is submitted to great ordeals in the internal worlds. He has to confront the fear of death, he must endure the hurricane of karma, he has to triumph over that which the Father - Mother place before him. The goal is to be able to enter, or better said, to be reborn in superhuman form in one of the kingdoms of the Devas, be it in that of great concentration, or of the long hairs, or of Maitreya, or of Supreme Happiness, etc.
In that region he will remain so as to prepare himself for Liberation.

The Divine Mother assists him in eliminating his inhuman elements, and to finally submerge within the bosom of the Great Reality; not as a Self- Realised Master, but as an Elemental Buddha. He submerges in that state until the Sixth Root Race with the purpose of Self- Realising there; or he may remain forever as a Buddhic Elemental and nothing more; nonetheless, happy.

They who try to liberate themselves, they who really want to Self- Realise, they who truly want to become Mahatmas or Hierophants will have to submit themselves to the Tantric discipline and work in the Ninth Sphere. Tantrism will teach them everything, such as how to awaken the Serpent, and how to raise it along the spinal column, how to open the chakras, etc.

Thus it is that the Bons are extreme, either they go for the Being or they do not. They work in the interests of Self-Realisation or they decide to remain without Self-Realisation; they must define themselves one way or the other. There, everything is violent, for which reason H.P.Blavatsky judged them to be Black Magicians. However, when one studies the Tantrism of the Bons, one realises that it is white, not black, but white. They transmute the sperm into energy in order to attain deep Self- Realisation.
Jesod is lunar, and this we cannot deny. In Gnostic esoterism a woman is shown, a divine ineffable Virgin, dressed in a blue tunic, and standing upon the Moon. One must know how to understand this; that Moon represents the Sephiroth Jesod, which symbolises the sexual force, and the tunic of a blue colour represents the night, during which the Great Mysteries of Life and Death unfold. Only at night does one work with the creative energy of the Third Logos. The work in the Laboratorium of the Holy Spirit must be done in the nocturnal hours. The Sahaja Maithuna must only be practised in the darkness of night, because during the day, the Sun is opposed to generation.

If one takes a hen sitting on eggs out into the light of the sun in order for the eggs to hatch, then they will not hatch, and if a chick should come out, then it will die because the Sun is the enemy of generation.

Whoever wishes to seek the light must ask it of the Logos, who is behind the Sun which illuminates us in the profound night.

The crude reality is that because of the disposition of the creative or gans, procreation takes place in darkness. This is due to the fact that when the zoosperm leaves the sexual glands, it does not leave in the light of the Sun, but in darkness, and in darkness enters the opening of the fallopian tube so as to connect with the ovum which descends from the ovaries; and gestation takes place within the darkness of the womb.

If that zoosperm however, were to pass out to the light of the Sun in stead of being emitted from the sexual glands in a state where it is pro tected by darkness; and if the foetus were not in darkness, and were to be found unprotected in the womb of the woman so that it received the direct light of the Sun, it is obvious that failure would result.

Because of the very disposition of the organs of nature themselves, fecundation is always realised in darkness. So too, one must work within the obscurity of silence and in the august secrecy of the wise to be able, one day, to attain the Intimate Self-Realisation of the Being. That is what that Virgin of the Immaculate Conception, dressed in a tunic of blue and standing upon the Moon is indicating to us the work of the Maithuna in the darkness of the night.

We must also warn that one should never practice twice in the same night. It is only permitted to practice once a day. Violence against nature occurs when one practices Sexual Magic twice in succession; the laws of the Creative Magnetic Pause are violated.

It is very important to understand that the spouse should never be com pelled to practice the Maithuna when ill or during menstruation, or whilst pregnant, because this is a crime of violence against nature.

A woman who has given birth to a child can only begin to practice the Maithuna forty days after the birth.

A crime of violence against nature also exists when a man or woman obliges their partner to realise the copula when the organism of the husband or wife is not in an appropriate state to do so.

The same crime also exists when with the pretext of practicing Sexual Magic, though it be with the best intentions of realising oneself, the man or woman forces himself or herself to effect the copula when the creative organs are not found to be in the precise amorous moment, or when there are not the favourable harmonious conditions which are indispensable for the copula.

---

CHAPTER 68, THE INITIATION OF TIPHERETH

“For as Jonas was three days and three nights in the whale’s belly: so shall the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the Earth.” (Matthew 12. 40)

With Tiphereth extraordinary events happen; an Initiate can receive the Initiation of Malchuth, that of Jesod, of Hod, and of Netzach and finally, the fifth, that of Tiphereth, when he becomes a Master. One may however, receive the fifth Initiation of the Human Soul, and thus becoming a Master nonetheless not attain the Initiation of Tiphereth.

The Initiation of Tiphereth comes properly, after the fifth Initiation of Fire. He who receives the fifth Initiation does not always have the joy of attaining the Initiation of Tiphereth; this is a very secret Initiation. They who take the Direct Way receive it.

In the second triangle of the Tree of Life the Cosmic Christ has as a center of gravity Tiphereth; from there he manifests.

There are things which merit reflection, analysis, comprehension. In or der for the Second Logos, Vishnu or the Cosmic Christ, to be able to save a man, He must become the personal, intimate, Jesus Christ.

The Christ is essentially a cosmic force; only if that force is humanised in some manner may it save a man.

The Law of the Solar Logos, the Cosmic Christ, is sacrifice for humanity. He sacrifices Himself from the dawn of life, being crucified in all of the worlds, in each new planet which comes into existence, so that all beings may have life, and have it in abundance.

Only after having passed through the five Initiations of Major Mysteries, having previously sacrificed for humanity, and by very special grace, is the Christ able to reincarnate within us. In order to understand how that cosmic force is humanised in us, one must learn how to control the Trimurtis.

It is very difficult for some brothers to understand this question of the Trimurtis. They are accustomed to think for example, of the First Logos, Second Logos and Third Logos; that is, the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, but then comes the second Trimurti in which we speak of Osiris, Isis and Horns; that is where they become confused. This is because the conversion of one Trimurti into another Trimurti can not be done on the basis of pure rationalism. There is a purely spiritual factor in this conversion of the Trimurtis, because it is only intuitively that one can learn, capture, grasp the idea.

Kether-Father, Chochmah-Son and Binah-Holy Spirit are three distinct personages and one true God this is what theology teaches. Although those three personages are triune, essentially they are only one, indi vidual, which is the Father.

Within the Father is the Son and the Holy Spirit, just as within the True Man is the Body, the Soul and the Holy Spirit. Likewise within the Ancient of Days there is also the Son, and the Holy Spirit which form an integral, unitotal, Single One. In ancient Egypt this Single Unitotal was called Osiris. (See chapter 7).

Osiris can divide himself; and he unfolds into Isis. Eve always comes from Adam’s rib.

As above so below. So there is nothing strange in the fact that from Osiris, the Solar-Adam, should come Solar-Eve, Urania-Venus, His wife. The Two always comes from the One. Just as the Father who is in secret has his wife who is the Divine Mother Kundalini, like wise, Osiris always has Isis as his wife.

From the perfect union of these two; Osiris-Isis, the child Horus (pronounced: “Aurus”)
is born. She and He love each other, and as a result of their love, She conceives by work and grace of the Holy Spirit. That is to say, by work and grace of Her husband the Third Logos, the Chris t or Second Logos descends to her immaculate and virginal womb.

It must be taken into account however, that although She may be the wife of the Third Logos, within the Third Logos is the Second Logos, and the First Logos also, because from start to finish the logos is triune and indivisible, unitotal and integral. A great deal of subtlety much re finement, much syntheticism and intuition is needed to understand this.

The conversion of the Trimurtis, one into the other, is something which asks much of the student in terms of understanding. If however, you strengthen your intuition a little, you will be able to understand it. From the holy, divine copula Isis conceives through Immaculate Conception. She is Virgin before birth, during the birth and after the birth.
Isis is our particular Divine Mother Kundalini; Ram-Io.

Thus the child comes into being who in Egypt is called Horus, and in Hebrew times was called Jeshua, our adorable Saviour. The Jesus of the Gospels is profoundly meaningful, because “Jesus” comes from the word Jeshua, which in Hebrew means Saviour.

Jesus, Jeshua and Horns are the same, the child who is always in the arms of his mother, Isis or Maria. It is the same Christ who has descended from the Second Logos, the Cosmic Christ humanised, ha ving become the Son of a divine man and a divine woman.
He has become the Saviour Child-King, but is an individual Child-King given that it is one’s very own Being. He is the crowned Child of Gold of the Alchemy.

It is Jesus Christ because Christ is the Second Logos, and Jesus because He has become a Saviour. In order to become a Saviour He has had to descend from His own sphere, enter a most pure virginal womb and be born by work and grace of the Holy Spirit. He has become the Child of the Divine Mother, the Son in fact of his Parents.

Indubitably we must distinguish between what Jesus Christ is as Great Kabir; the man who preached the Doctrine of the Intimate Christ of each one of us, and what the intimate, individual Jesus Christ of each one of us is.

The Cosmic Christ is impersonal and universal, and is beyond the individuality of the personality and the “I”. It is a cosmic force which ex presses through any man who is correctly prepared. At one time it found expression through Jesus of Nazareth, through Hermes Trismegistus, through the Buddha Gautama Sakyamuni, through Quetzalcoatl etc and it may express through any Avatar. So as to be able to express, this force must descend from superior spheres and enter the womb of a Virgin called Isis, Maria, Tonantzin, Insoberta, Maia, Cibeles etc, who is the individual Cosmic Mother, given that each one of us has his own.

When one reads the Epistles of Paul the Apostle, one may verify to one’s surprise that Jesus the Great Kabir, or the historical Christ is rarely mentioned; the Intimate Christ is always alluded to.

However, for the Intimate Christ to be born within us - Jeshua humanised - one must have worked in the Forge of Cyclops and have formed the existential Bodies of the Being.

For the Saviour to be born, the phe nomenon of Bethlehem must be repeated. The aforementioned event is both very profound and symbolic. That small village of Bethlehem of which the gospels speak, is some thing very allegorical. It is said that that tiny hamlet did not exist in the time of Jesus of Nazareth. If we analyse the word “Belen”
[Spanish for Bethlehem] we have Bel-En, and we see that “Bel” in Chaldean terminology means “Tower of Fire”. When does one attain the “Tower of Fire”? When the superior existential Bodies of the Being have been created, when the Sacred Fire has reached the upper part of the brain; this is when the phenomenon of Bethlehem occurs.

One may also however give the case of the Initiate who, in spite of hav ing the Solar Bodies, does not incarnate the Child. I want with this to say something which is of a very subtle nature and which goes unnoticed by kabalists because we have Tiphereth united with the Causal Body.

We can clarify this question by analysing the Epistle of Paul to the Corinthians. (I Corinthians 15. 47-49). Paul says that there exists the Earthly Man and the Celestial Man.
The Earthly Man is unquestionably formed of the Physical Body, the Etheric, the Astral, the Mental, and that of Conscious Will. For the Son of Man to be able to come it is necessary to form the Earthly Man, because the ordinary man is still not a Man.

It is when one has had the good fortune of creating the existential Bodies of the Being that one may be called a Man, although he be Earthly. The second man of whom Paul speaks is the Celestial Man, and he says:

“And as we have born the image of the earthly, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly.”

The Son of Man comes when He has to fulfil some specific mission on Earth, when the Initiate has taken the Direct Path to Final Liberation.

After the fifth Initiation of Fire, it was necessary for me to be called by my Divine Mother Kundalini; she had the Child in her arms. I made a particular esoteric petition, and she responded saying: “Ask it of the Child”, and I asked the Child what I had to ask.

Afterwards, I was able to receive the Initiation of Tiphereth, that is to say, after the fifth Initiation of Fire. Then, that Child which I had seen in the arms of his mother, my Divine Mother (since each one of us has his very own) penetrated within my organism by the marvellous doorway of the Pineal Gland, which Descartes called the seat of the Soul. In this case my body became the stable where the Child was born, where he came into the world.

I can say to you that in the beginning one does not much notice the pres ence of the Child within oneself. He is born amongst the animals of the stable, which are none other than the animals of desire, the passions, the vices and defects which keep the consciousness trapped. These are the elements which make up the “pluralised I”. The “I” is really formed of animal elements, these are nourished from the inferior substances of the lower animal depths of man, there they live and multiply. Each animal elemental represents a particular defect; these make up what is called ego, the animals of the stable where the Child is born in order to save the man.

That Child has to suffer a great deal. He is not born in a grand palace, he is born in a stable; is born extremely weak, very small, amongst the great masses of “I’s” who surround the stable.

The God Child grows little by little, over time He develops. How does He grow? In what way? By eliminating the “I ” disintegrating them, reducing them to ashes, to cosmic dust.
This is how our personal intimate Jeshua grows. The labour which that Child must undertake is very arduous; it is the Christ which is born in the stable to save us, and He must kill within Himself all of those animals of the stable. He must over come the princes of evil in Himself, the sons of infidelity in Himself, and the temptations which one must pass through being human, being a person of flesh and bone. These are the temptations through which he must pass; they are His temptations, and one’s own body of flesh and bone becomes His body of flesh and bone. In this lies the value of His sacrifices, of His efforts.

This is how the Son of Man comes to the world and becomes a man of flesh and bone;
becomes a man amongst men and is exposed to the suffering of men, must experience the same tortures as any man. Our psychological process becomes a process which He must order and trans form; our preoccupations are His preoccupations. For just reason He has

been called Holy Constancy because He cannot be defeated, and in the end, triumphs. He is then showered with glory, is worthy of all praise, dominion and majesty.

The Kings of Intelligence, the Three Wise Men, the true geniuses will always recognise the Lord and will venerate Him; will come to adore Him.

As He grows, the suffering for Him becomes greater and greater. He, being so perfect must overcome the powers of darkness in Himself; be ing so pure, He must ove rcome the impurity in Himself having passed beyond all possibility of temptation, he must overcome the temptations within Himself.

The Child will always find himself in great danger; Herod, the world, the tenebrous will always want to slaughter Him. The Baptism in the Jordan of existence will always be essential; the waters of life clean, transform and baptise. The Transfiguration interprets with supreme intelligence the Law of Moses; He, transfigured, teaching the people and dis playing in his work all of the marvellous zeal of Elias.

The Intimate Christ will always come to us walking upon the tempestuous waves of the sea of life. The Intimate Christ will always establish order in our mind, and return the lost light to our eyes; will multiply the bread of the Eucharist to nourish and strengthen our Souls.

The Intimate Christ incarnated in an Initiate will preach upon the roadsides of this Great Jerusalem of the World, delivering to humanity the message of the New Era.

But the scribes, who are intellectuals of the epoch, those who form the cultural aspect will say: “That man is mad”. Itso happens that the intellectuals wish to organise everything on a basis of reasoning. Any human is able to develop through the most strict logical processes of his encephalous brain a materialistic theory or equally, a spiritual theory and in one like the other, as much in the thesis as the antithesis, the logic is truly admirable.

His teachings are also rejected by the priests, the people of all religions, of all pseudo-esoteric and pseudo-occult organisations. Those persons who consider themselves to be very serious always say: “What this man says is madness; he is evil.” This is how the Son of Man is rejected in this world.

Every Initiate has to live the Cosmic Drama of the Crucifixion in him self. The Three Traitors crucify him, they deliver him. Judas, the Demon of Desire sells him for 30 pieces of silver, hands him over for women, pleasures, diversions. Pilate, the Demon of the Mind always washes his hands, finds a justification for all of his errors. Caiaphas, the Demon of Ill-will always wants to have his own way, abhors the Will of the Father. The Initiate has to live the Cosmic Drama in a complete, integral and total form.

We find that he is cursed and betrayed and will have to die; that is to say that the earthly man must die, he submits himself to the Will of the Father and goes to his death, his posthumous work.

In the consciousness of an Initiate there will always be wonderful cosmic events, and amongst the lightning, thunder and great earth quakes of the Soul the Lord will always deliver his Spirit to the Father exclaiming; “My Father, into your hands I commend my Spirit”. Then comes His death.

With His death, His psychic aggregates are disintegrated, and after the body has descended to the sepulchre for three days, it resuscitates. These three days are also allegorical. After these three days the Son of Man passes through great purifications; the very last inhuman element which he has within dies. For this reason it is said that the Son of Man has died in Himself, has killed death because death can only be killed with death.
Later, the Son of Man has to resuscitate with the Physical Body and be comes a Resurrected Master, has the Elixir of Long Life, is a true King of Nature according to the Order of Melchizedek. We may then exclaim like the Apostle Paul; “Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory?” (1 Corinthians 15.54-55).

The important thing is that He attains redemption; with His resuscitation, the Soul within Him resuscitates. All of our animic and spiritual principles resuscitate in Him and are one in Him.

It is necessary to understand that He is our authentic internal Saviour, our particular intimate Jesus Christ.

Thus He resuscitates in the Father, and the Father resuscitates in Him. When Phillip, that Master who is an expert in the states of Jinas, said to Jesus: “Show us the Father”, the Great Kabir replied: “He who has seen the Son, has seen the Father.”

The three Great Purifications are symbolised by the three Nails of the Cross. Above the Cross is the word INRI (Ignis Natura Reno vatur Integra).

The fire incessantly renews nature. The three Nails signify the three purifications by the fire and by the iron. After the three purifications based in fire and iron one achieves the Resurrection of the Dead. The Three Days are three periods of labour in which the Son of Man must realise the Great Work.

Bear in mind that it is with the Cross that the undesirable elements have been eliminated.
The fidelity to the Father is demonstrated with the Cross; there are many who say, I am faithful to the Father, to the Mother, to the Son of Man, but when the hour of testing comes, in the moment of truth, they fail with the Cross. Where is the Cross? This is the Cross of the Lingam-Yoni; it is here that they fornicate, adulterate, commit their evil deeds. Thus the undesirable elements must be disintegrated in order to seek the death of the earthly man.

It is necessary to know that Jesus the Great Kabir who came to the world 1,999 years ago, and who preached this Doctrine, knew very well that each person has his particular Intimate Jesus Christ. For this reason He said that He wanted each one to follow his own Intimate Christ, that it is He who is important, because He is our Saviour. It is He who comes to reconcile us with our own Father who is in secret, with the Ancient of the Centuries; He is the Great Reconciler.

When He has triumphed, He is glorified and is worthy of all praise and glory, given that He has overcome all of the evil within Himself. He has not overcome it outside, but rather within Himself. He has been sacrificed like a lamb and for this reason is called the Sacrificial Lamb. He has sacrificed Himself to save us with his Blood; that is to say, with the Fire. In Alchemy the Blood represents the Sacred Fire of Kundalini.

It is good to understand all of this; I am explaining to you that which I have, in essence, lived; that which I am experiencing in myself. I would not commit the crime of saying to you that Jam the Christ, that would be blasphemy, a lack of respect for the Saviour, but I do say to you that He is saving me, as He has saved so many. I may be one more of those who are saved, and as I am working, I have experienced it; what I am saying I have verified, I have lived.

                                   PART FOUR

                                          ***

      THE INITIATIC PATH IN THE ARCANA OF

                        TAROT AND KABALAH

                                          ***

                           NUMEROLOGY AND

                    ESOTERIC MATHEMATICS

                                          ***
  “Draw back the veil which hides the Celestial Spirits; see that each man and each
woman is a star. They are like mysterious lanterns hanging in the firmament. God is the
                flame which burns in all, the vivifying geometry of all.”

 “For this reason number is holy, is infinite, is eternal, there, where He resides, there is
                       no d diversity is unity.” Gnostic Ritual.

---

CHAPTER 69, NUMEROLOGICAL TABLE

This is a table or diagram which is very important to the deep under standing of Esoteric Mysteries.

It is a quadrilateral and divided in 9 numbers. There is a triple vertical and horizontal division. The principles of arithmetic and geometry are expressed here.

We find in that table, individual architecture, the interior universe which is what each one of us must fabricate within. It is the construction of our intimate interior universe. Cosmic architecture is related with the 7 cosmos of the Infinite. Social architecture is related with the construction of our temples, houses, buildings.

It is necessary to understand that this table has a relationship with the three previously-mentioned principles of architecture, with geometry, and with mathematics. A relationship must be made with numbers be cause in that the Kabalah is based.

The diagram divided into 9 parts represents a triple extension, or the triplicity of the Ternary; that is, the Ninth Sphere.

We have explained much about the Ninth Sphere, but this can be dem onstrated mathematically. Everything which is related with the Ninth Sphere and the Self-Realisation of man can be proven with numbers, or esoteric mathematics which comes from remote times.

We will analyse the first vertical Ternary:

1. Monad.

4. Cross.

7. Septenary.

The “1” is the Monad, the unity the Iod-Heve Jehova, the Father who is in secret; is the Divine Trinity and is not incarnated in a Master who has not killed the ego. It is Osiris,

God himself, the Verb. It has expression in the 4 because the 4 is the Chariot of Mercabah of the Kabalah, which are the 4 Bodies:

1. Physical Body.
2. Authentic Solar Astral Body.
3. Authentic Solar Mental Body.
4. Authentic Solar Causal Body.

It is the Chariot of the Ages which takes the form of the Celestial Man. The Monad finds expression by means of the Chariot; in it He travels. The 4 also represents the 4 points of the Cross, which enclose the Mysteries of the Lingam-Yoni. In the crossing of these two is found the key with which Self-Realisation is attained. The Monad Self-Realises by means of the Cross. Without the 4 there is no Self- Realisation, the Law of the Ternaries which belongs to esoteric mathematics would be violated.

4= +   (cross)
Contained within the 4 are the Mysteries of sex.

Masculine plus feminine =   + (cross).
The Self- Realisation of the Monad is verified in the Septenaiy, in the authentic Man. The Septenaiy is complete when the 7 principles or Christifled Bodies are attained, the 7 chakras developed and the 7 Serpents of Fire raised.

We will analyse the second vertical Ternary:

2. Divine Mother.
5. Intelligence.
8. Caduceus of Mercury.

The 2 is Heve, the Divine Mother, is the Father which divides; later She is also Brahama, because She is the feminine aspect of the Father.

Iod            Monad.
Heve           Divine Mother.
Iod-Heve       Jehova.

The authentic Jehova is our Father who is in secret, and our Divine Mother. The cruel Jehova of the Jews is an anthropomorphisation of the true authentic Jehova who is within each one of us.

Heve, the Divine Mother expresses through Inteffigence, which is number 5. She is the means by which one attains the elimination of the ego because true inteffigence is in Her.
If one wishes to dissolve the ego one must appeal to the Divine Mother; in deeply comprehend ing our own errors and beseeching Her, She eliminates them for us.

The Divine Mother manifests through the Holy Eight, or Caduceus of Mer cury which represents the spinal column, the Kundalini energy ascending through the channel of Sushumna.

The Holy Eight has its root in sex. The Holy Eight is the sign of the Infinite.

The relationship between the 2, 5 and 8 is extraordinary; the Caduceus of Mercury or sign of the Infinite is to be found in the Ninth Sphere.

All of this wisdom was known in the Pythagorean Mysteries. They are known to Masonry, but they have not studied them profoundly.

We will analyse the third vertical Ternary:

3. Trinity.
6. Love, Man and Woman.
9. The Ninth Sphere.

The number 3 corresponds to the Third Logos, the Holy Spirit. The Third Logos is in essence, the creative sexual force which expresses in all the universe. One works by means of number 6 which is related with sex. Here the man and woman is to be found; in the Tarot a man is shown before vice and virtue, before the Virgin and the whore. The sexual force must be worked with through the 6, or that is, with love this has an expression in 9 which equals the Ninth Sphere. Number 9 is the number of the Master.

The three triads or horizontal lines represent the three worlds.

Spiritual      Spirit.
Animic         Soul.
Physical       Body.

Contained within this table are the principles for the Self-Realisation of man.

---

CHAPTER 70, NUMBER ONE (1)

Number 1 is the Sun, the King-Star, He who gives us life. This corresponds to the constellation of Aries which governs the head, the musical note Do, and the colour white.
The metal is gold, and precious stone, the diamond.

From amongst the plexus where the chakras are located, the number 1 is attributed to the cardiac plexus because if the heart ceases to function, death comes. For this reason it is the number 1.

Number 1 is the wisdom of the Father, is the Crown because the Ancient of Days is King, He who has power over nature. He is 1 because He has power, because it is He who rules.
Wisdom is of the Father; one cannot teach the Monad. All the wisdom of the Father, He foresees.

Through not lacking piety one may become pitiless, because many times we do not understand the Father; He is the number 1 of the kabalistic tree.

Original ideas correspond to the 1. It is obvious that number 1 belongs to the will, to personal initiative, the entrepreneurial drive.

Unity of thought and action must be one with authentic and tenacious will, as a formidable impulse in whatever one undertakes.

---

CHAPTER 71, NUMBER TWO (2)

To the number 2 corresponds the constellation of Taurus, which governs the neck of that marvellous uterus, the creative larynx where the Word, the Verb is gestated.

The musical note is Re, the colour is violet, the metal silver, and the precious stone, the emerald.

The plexus which corresponds to it is the laryngeal, the thyroid, the chakra of magic hearing, of clairaudience.

There is a laryngeal mantram to awaken this chakra which is the E, and the musical note Re must be sounded. This must be vocalised daily. One should inhale and exhale on the note Re, vocalising EEEEEEEE... In this manner one attains the development of the laryngeal chakra which gives us the power to hear the voices of the ultra, of the superior beings. There is a necessity to develop the la ryngeal chakra because it is impossible in any other way to hear those sounds.

The lymph glands and the stomach correspond to the number 2; the Moon also.

Number 1 divides into the dyad. The number 2 is the first Trimurti in its second aspect, the Christ. This should not be confused with the second Trimurti in which the Father divides into the Mother, and She into the Child.

The number 2 of the Tree of Life is the Son, Christ, and is the Instruc tor of the World.
For this reason Hermes Trismegistus said: “I give you love in which is contained the whole Sumun of Wisdom”.

Number 2 has 32 Paths and 50 Gates. The explanation is as follows:

32 Paths = 3 + 2 = 5 (The Pentalpha, man).
50 Gates = 5 + 0 = 5 (The Pentalpha, man).

We add the result: 5 + 5 = 10

10 = 1 + 0 = 1

Within 0 are the masculine and feminine principles, the foundation of love through sex.

The information about the 50 Gates is very interesting; in one of the Gnostic rituals it says that there exists a palace: “The floor of that palace is of silver and gold, lapis lazuli and jasper; and there one smells a variety of aromas of roses and jasmine. In the midst of all however, blows a gentle breeze of Death. Let the officiants enter to open the Gates one by one, or all together. Let them step upon the floor of the palace it will not give way.
Woe to you, oh warrior, oh fighter, if your servant is destroyed. There are, however, remedies and remedies.”(Gnostic Ritual)

Certainly, in the superior worlds there is a temple with 50 Gates which is surrounded by the four elements: fire, earth, air and water. It is guarded by two sphinxes of gold. The student receives instruction in that temple; each one of its chambers corresponds kabalistically with the 50 Gates and 32 Paths (to see one’s past lives).

One has within oneself the 50 Gates; all is within man.

Many years ago, at the beginning of the new year, I had to live a certain drama in the theatre of the world. Being pursued, I reached the Temple of the 50 Gates with its two sphinxes of gold which guard the doors. We have already studied the symbolism of the sphinx, the face, the paws of the lion, etc.

I entered the palace; it was surrounded by water and crossed a very beautiful garden, but there was a gentle breeze of death. I entered the first of the 50 Gates and was there received by a group of brethren who applauded me. Afterwards I went out and entered another lovely gar den which also had a gentle breeze of death. I then entered the second Gate, and they who had congratulated me had become traitors who vo ciferated and slandered. I remained silent and crossed the other garden to the third Gate, finding there other people who congratulated me, I passed through another room and other people.
Thus I passed through those 50 Gates and followed the 32 Paths, that is, traversing the interior path. I met with some Masters who were dressed as executioners (they are the executioners of the ego) who said to me: “Study the ritual of Life and of Death until the Officiant arrives”. The Officiant was my Real Being. With this I have explained those things about the 32 Paths and the 50 Gates; this is the number 2. All corresponds to the Intimate Christ who must be born in each one of us. He is Love.

Number 2 is Love, the Suffering Christ, He who must live the whole Drama.

In the number 2 are the two columns, Jakin and Boaz; there is association. One must learn to associate ideas, thoughts, to associate with people, things, the family. One must know how to listen to contrary opinions without becoming annoyed, to dissolve the “I” of anger, to cultivate harmony, so that associations may be harmonious.

Within the 2 are relationships; mother with child, woman with man, man with woman, relationships with things, with the antithesis, with opinions. One must learn to manage ideas, dealings, in peace and serenity; that is the number 2. One must learn to manage the 2.

---

CHAPTER 72, NUMBER THREE (3)

To the number 3 corresponds the zodiacal constellation of Gemini and the planet Jupiter.
The musical note of number 3 is Mi, the colour purple, the metal tin, the plexus, the splenic (spleen) and the hepatic (liver).

The transmutation of the creative energy corresponds to the number 3. The splenic chakra is the centre of the Etheric Body, the life of the Sun enters our organism here.

During the night the splenic chakra gathers the energies left by the Sun during the day.
With that energy the splenic chakra transmutes the white corpuscles into red corpuscles.
During the day the organic wastes obstruct the nerve channels of the Great Sympathetic nervous system. During sleep the vital energy makes the chakra there rotate, and this in turn uses the energy of the Sun. It passes to the spleen transmuting the white corpuscles into red. The energy passes to the solar plexus and is distributed throughout the whole nervous system. The thyroid gland cooperates, disinfecting the whole organism. It is clear that when the ego (lunar Astral ) returns, the organism will have been repaired, and we feel in better health. When one gets up feeling very tired, it means that the organism is ill.
The hepatic chakra serves for astral projection. The Astral Body is con nected with the liver. By awakening the chakra of the liver anyone can enter and leave the Physical Body at will. The splenic, hepatic and solar plexus are developed with the Egyptian mantram

                                      FE-UIN-DAGH

One chants on the note Mi, thus developing the three chakras and the lungs.

Number 3 is power, has 50 Gates and 50 Lights. We already know the significance of the 50 Gates - they must be sought within oneself.

50 Gates = 5 + 0 = 5 (Pentalpha, man)
50 Lights = 5 + 0 = 5

The result added: 5 + 5 = 10

The “10” are the 10 Sephiroth of the Kabalah, 10 = O, the symbol for the Divine Mother, the line being nothing more than the point extended.
We have found that 10 = « within the l0 we ah know is the , the creative energy the Holy Spirit. This gives us the power, the power of sex. It is there where the force of the Holy Spirit is; the 50 Lights are the power of the Holy Spirit. Without that force we “do not have a sword, and without the sword, are disarmed.”

It is said that the Law of Moses is contained within the number 3, be cause the Holy Spirit is within the 3. The Holy Spirit is that which illu minates us, teaches us the Law.

Wisdom         Father.
Love           Son.
Power          Holy Spirit.

In looking at the practical aspect of life we find that the number 3 is material, as well as spiritual production; the realisation of our own yearnings, aspirations, ideas.

But if we wish to be fruitful, attain success, we have to handle the 3 with intelligence because in the 3 exists harmony, art, beauty.

To express everything in a beautiful way.

If one wishes to triumph, one must use the 3, be it with the word, or the manner of dress.
The 3 allows the realisation of our cherished desires.

To lay a foundation creates favourable conditions so that triumph may be realised. If the Tendency 3 (we will see this later) falls to us one day, we must do things well, with precaution and beauty, with harmony, perfection. We must know how to create so as to have that which we desire that day; be it in dealings, in our work or in anything whatsoever.

---

CHAPTER 73, NUMBER FOUR (4)

Number 4 is the Tetrad, the planet which corresponds to it is Uranus and obviously also the constellatio n of Cancer, since it is the fourth constellation.

With respect to colour, it is dark red, and platinum is the metal.

The musical note is Fa; the fluids, the hormones correspond to number 4. Number 4 is Magnificence. It has 72 Gates to administer Justice, and this is administered by means of the 35 principles of Mercy.

We are magnificent inasmuch as we proceed in accordance with each one of those principles.

Justice is administered according to the 35 principles of Mercy. Justice without Mercy would be tyranny.

Justice and Mercy are perfectly balanced.

72 Gates 7 + 2 = 9 (Ninth Sphere).

One cannot be just, really just, if one has not attained the Second Birth. When one has traversed the Ninth Sphere, then one receives the Flam ing Sword, then it is said that one is just. He who has not worked in the Ninth Sphere has no right to the Sword of Justice.

The 35 principles of Mercy =3+5=8 (Justice). In Arcanum 8 the woman has the Sword of Justice and a Balance for weighing the good and bad actions.

We must triumph over sex. The Great Archons of the Law triumphed over sex. In them Justice and Mercy is balanced.

In number 4 we find skill in any area, order, authority.

Number 4 is the Emperor of the Kabalah. It means stability; it is the basis for that which we may want be it to establish a home, business, journey, employment, etc. That which one wishes to have must be perfectly solid, must be the Cubical Stone, solid as concrete.
Do not establish a false base because everything will fall through.

If on a given day the Tendency 4 falls to us, we must establish a firm base in order to have success. Things must be done correctly, precisely, solidly, so they do not lead to failure. That day we must do things reflecting in a precise, solid manner, do nothing a priori because it will fail.

The economic aspect is in number 4 and we must develop this in a correct form. In the economy of number 4 there are ascents and descents. Each time that an ascent is required, one must have a solid base.

The number 4 must be reflected in all things, to consider that the 4 is foundation, and that this foundation must be solid. We must make a base for familial relations.

---

CHAPTER 74, NUMBER FIVE (5)

Number 5 is the Pentalpha, the five-pointed star. It corresponds to the planet Mercury and the fifth constellation of Leo.

The solar plexus corresponds to the number 5 the metal, Azoth (mercury) The musical note is Sol It is related with the gall bladder Esoterically it corresponds to the planet Mars Number 5 of the Kabalah is the Hierophant, rigor the Law It is said that there is access through 72 Gates and that each of these has 35 prmciples

We are strong to the extent that we comply with those principles The 5 is the Living Fire which is aroused within us and which diffuses throughout the whole organism it is the fortitude of the Fire

The analysis of the 72 Gates = 7 + 2 = 9 (Ninth Sphere)
The 35 principles = 3 + 5 = 8 (Infinite)

The 9 is the Hermit, the Ninth Sphere, sex. With respect to the 8, it is justice which in turn is represented by the sign of the Infinite the Fire of Phlege thon and the Water of Acheron the Fire and the Water origin of men beasts and Gods

Every authentic initiation begins here The Son of Man comes from the Fire and the Water it is that which gives us fortitude

The 5 is in essence, the five-pointed star, the Pentalpha man Authentic Man must be born in the Ninth Sphere To understand this is very important Thus the 72 Gates, because he is born of the Ninth Sphere It is this which gives power to the Son of Man.

The 35 principles are Justice, Law; the number 5 is verification. The Water and the Fire intersect in the Ninth Sphere forming the sign of the Infinite, the horizontal 8.
Conclusion:   8 =«
Ariano Montes, the great esoterist who dwelt in a monastery in Spain, gives us this formula Infinite = Pentalpha which is also to be found in very old books. The Son of Man is born of Water and Fire in the Ninth Sphere, sex

From the psychological point of view the number 5 is: persuasion, investigation, selection, comprehension.

In the number 5 we see study. One must know how to deal with this number in a profound manner, in a reflective, analytical form, seeking, investigating new aspects.
Analyse and investigate. One must do noth ing without reflection, because if these conditions are not fulfilled, things will end up being badly done.

It is not a matter of planning, because this fails. Those who spend their lives making plans, fail. The pros and cons of things must be considered so that things do not end up being badly done. We must learn to think for ourselves. All those who live making plans fail; they spend their time making plans, and they fail.

One must go forward based on facts, and do so with intelligence so as not to make mistakes. At times some plan is formed of the abyss which exists between thought and facts, but it does not work.

One must not proceed upon plans but upon facts; we must proceed upon a basis of facts, with intelligence, with wisdom, with comprehension; if not, we may suffer great failures.
One must be alert.

Number 5 is also the symbol of Power, we must do things with intelligence, be vigilant so as not to err.

---

CHAPTER 75, NUMBER SIX (6)

To the number 6 corresponds to the sixth constellation, Virgo. The planet is Venus, and the musical note La.

It is related with the Islets of Langerhans located in the pancreas. It is these which secrete the insulin which is so important for the digestion of sugars.

The colour is blue, its plexus, the sacrum or coccyx, the Muladhara chakra. The 6 is related with all the glands.

The number 6 has 72 gates on each side and 72 intermediates. The Initiate who traverses those 72 Gates is able to enter the world of the crude reality of life and the Sidere.

The world of crude reality is the Ninth Sphere because 72 Gates = 7 + 2 = 9. If we understand what the 72 Gates are, if we know what the Great Arcanum is, we can enter the world of the crude reality of life and the “Mundo Sidere”, which is the astral world.

It is very interesting that the number 6 has 72 Gates on each side and 72 intermediates;
we find the explanation in the Star of King Solomon.

6 Masculine points.

6 Feminine indentations.

Y
This star has in summary 12 rays, 6 masculine, 6 feminine which break down into the 12 constellations of the zodiac. Synthesised and summa rised within the star are the mysteries of the Arcanum A.Z.F., the mys teries of Alchemy, the mysteries of sex this is the symbol of the Logos.

The 6 having been explained in a transcendental kabalistic manner, it will now be clear to you why one enters the world of crude reality whilst comprehension unfolds. It is due to this that people are horrified should they encounter the Arcanum A.Z.F. in a categorical and public manner. The teaching of the Ninth Sphere must be demonstrated by means of the Kabalah, so that people may know the truth.

The 72 Gates located side by side are within Jakin and Boaz, and in the centre of these two colunms where the 72 intermediates are to be found, is the mystery of the two columns, the Unworked Stone.

The Unworked Stone must be chiselled until it is perfect. If we add the Holy 6 three times, it gives us 666 which is the number of the Beast. But if we add 6 + 6 + 6 = 18. The 18 is extremely tenebrous, it is the Twilight, hidden enemies, secret enemies.

The tenebrous attack terribly when one is working in the Great Work. It is not to their liking, and they seek a way to force the disciple from the Path, they attack him terribly.

In number 6 we find erotic volition, ideas relating to adornment, reciprocity, fertility, lovingness.

---

CHAPTER 76, NUMBER SEVEN (7)

Number 7 is a very strong number. Its planet is Neptune and it corresponds to the constellation of Libra.

Its musical note is SI; the metal, bronze; the stone, opal.

Its colour is magenta (a blue colour, a colour which is purplish grey). All of the Nadis, or nerve channels are of this number.

The number 7 is guarded by “248” precepts; we progress in accordance with the extent to which we understand these 248 precepts. Arcanum 7 is Triumph, and he who triumphs sees the astral light, and is practically Self-Realised.

If we add 248 together it gives us 2 + 4 + 8 =14; 1 + 4 = 5. The 248 precepts reduce to Arcanum 14 of the Kabalah which is Temperance, a woman with two vessels who mixes the two Waters; that is to say the White Elixir with the Red Elixir of life, of the Alchemy.
This is the work with the Sun and with the Moon, the work of transmutation.

Number 5 becomes the perfect Self- Realised Flaming Star. Number 7 is the number of Victory having 248 precepts of an affirmative type. One must understand the 248 precepts in order to attain victory over oneself and to be able to see the astral light.

There we find the force of the Soul, of the action and the image, answer or result.
Number 7 is the Arcanum of Victory, the 248 precepts are re duced to Arcanum “5”, which is none other than the resplendent Flam ing Star, the Star of Divinity.

Number 7 is efficiency, integrity, concentration, clemency, yearning for the ascendent life.

---

CHAPTER 77, NUMBER EIGHT (8)

Number 8 is the Octad. Its planet is Saturn, its constellation the eighth, which corresponds to Scorpio.

Its metal is lead, and stone, the black onyx. The musical note is Do in the second octave.

In the number 8 are to be found the Laws of Evolution and Involution. That which is subject to evolution violates the Laws of the Holy Eight, violates the Laws of mathematics; thus every evolution is followed by involution. These two Laws form the Holy Eight.
                                           -------------------Evolution

                                             8
                                               ------------------ Involution

These two Laws of Evolution and Involution cannot lead us to Self- Realisation; the Path of Consciousness is needed. In nature, in the universe, everything is mathematics.

The Holy Eight represents the brain, heart and sex of the planetary Genie. We already know that the struggle is terrible: brain against sex, sex against brain, heart against heart.

The Holy Eight has 365 precepts; those precepts must not be violated.

3 + 6 + 5 = 14; 1 + 4 = 5.

The 14 signifies Temperance, is the mixture of the Waters, it is the work with the Red Elixir and the White Elixir.

When the struggle of heart against heart begins, the Five-Pointed Star falls, and rests with the lower points facing upwards.

Number 8 is the primordial Water because it is located in the Ninth Sphere, in the planetary cerebrum.

The Waters are transmuted into energy, and arise through Ida and Pingala, reaching the brain, forming the Caduceus of Mercury, the Holy Eight.

One must learn to differentiate between a fall and a descent. No-one can ascend without first descending, it is the Law.

Upon the supreme disobedience of Adam is superimposed the supreme obedience of Christ; but Christ had to descend.

Always when we wish to ascend, we must descend because otherwise we stagnate. From this stagnation one can only escape by descending; but distinguish between a fall and a descent.

Number 8 is moderation, the Caduceus, just distribution.

---

CHAPTER 78, NUMBER NINE (9)

Number 9 is the Enneagon, is the Ninth Sphere. It is related with Mars through the Ninth Sphere. There one undertakes the battle with oneself, against all, against nature; because here demons and Gods are formed, and one must descend to the bottom of the Inferno to fabricate the Solar Bodies.

The ninth constellation of Sagittarius corresponds to it. The metal is iron, its stone the carbuncle. The colour is red and the musical note, Re in the second octave.

The coronary plexus and the creative organs, the gonads correspond to the number 9.

The work with the Ninth Sphere has an objective; to create the Solar Bodies. It must be understood however, that although an individual may have fabricated those Bodies, he has not for this reason attained immortality.

To achieve immortality it is necessary to have worked in the dissolution of the ego, because if not one becomes a Hanasmussen with a double centre of gravity. These are the miscarriages of the Cosmic Mother which enter the infernal worlds until they reach the second death.

It is necessary to attain the elimination of the ego and of the Three Traitors. When one attains one hundred percent of consciousness, then one realises what the ego and the Three Traitors are.

The Red Demons of Set must be reduced to a cosmic dust cloud. it is necessary to experience absolute death, because if any subjective element remains alive, the deceased is called to order.

They who have died in themselves are received in the World of the De ceased.

Emotion, wisdom, generosity and geniality belong to number 9.

Finally we have the zero, this is eternity, the Universal Spirit of Life.

In the Kabalah one must work with all of the numbers. Number is holy, is infinite, is eternal.

---

CHAPTER 79, THE SEVEN CHURCHES OF THE APOCALYPSE OF SAINT JOHN AND THEIR RELATIONSHIP WITH THE KABALISTIC TREE

“He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches; To him that overcometh I will give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the paradise of God.” (Apocalypse 2. 7).

The first Church, that of Ephesus or the Muladhara chakra, has four marvellous petals which are situated in the coccygeal bone. The coccyx is the lowest bone of the spinal column. (Everything related to the 7 Churches or chakras is to be found in the following books: The Message of Aquarius, and The Mysteries of Fire.)

The second Church, of Smyrna, the prostatic (uterine in the woman) or Swadhisthana chakra is located at the level of the prostate. The magicians of old, the Persians, the Egyptians, placed great importance upon the prostate. The letter which makes it vibrate is the M. It is vocalised with the lips closed, the tone being raised and lowered, and is of singular power, being used by magicians.

The third Church, of Pergamos, the umbilical or Manipura chakra, is situated in the solar plexus. It has 10 petals, 5 being active in the Etheric Body, and 5 latent in the Telepathic Centre. The emotional brain is here, and when it is developed, one has access to telepathy.

The fourth Church of Thyatira, is the Cardias, or Anahata chakra. It is situated in the heart, and is a lotus flower with 12 petals which have a fiery glow in the astral light. It is good to develop it so as to be able to enter and leave the body at will; it also facilitates travel of the body of flesh and bone within the fourth dimension in Jinas.

The fifth Church, of Sardis is in the thyroid gland. It is the Vishuddha chakra, the laryngeal chakra of 16 petals, which confers upon us clairaudience.

The sixth Church, of Philadelphia, is the Ajna, or frontal chakra. It has 2 petals, is at the point between the eyebrows, it is the centre of clairvoyance. With it one can see people’s auras, and the superior worlds.

The seventh Church of Laodicea, is the King of the chakras, the Sahasrara. It has 1,000 petals, is the centre of polyvision, the centre of intuition, the Diamond Eye.

In accordance with the ascent of Kundalini along the spinal column, along the Brahama nadi, each one of the chakras of the Chitra nadi are awoken. In the Kabalah, the Igneous Serpent is related with the whole kabalistic tree. What does one need to open the chakras?
In the first Church of Ephesus, the pivotal point is principally in the virtue of patience. To control the creative energy, one needs the patience of Saint Job. Lucifer is the ladder to descend, and Lucifer is the ladder to ascend. In the second Church, of Smyrna, the virtue is chastity.

The third chakra is the umbilical, or emotional centre. The special virtue is then the control of the emotions, to kill desires, passions such as gluttony, drunkenness, etc. One must be temperate, not allowing oneself to be carried away by the emotions.

The fourth chakra is that of the heart; it is the centre of Love. One must know how to love, not to hate. Its found ation is Love.

The fifth Church is Sardis; it is related with the intellect, the mind. One must know how to be cautious with the Word, the Verb. Just thought and word, just action, right thought, right feeling, right action. To take care of the mind and of the Word it is as bad to speak when one should be silent, as to be silent when one should speak. There are times when it is a crime to speak just as there are times when to be silent is a crime. There are criminal silences.

In the sixth Church, in order to have clairvoyance, it is necessary to have serenity. To be able to see in the internal worlds, one must not let oneself be carried away by anger because this destroys the frontal chakra. For this reason serenity is necessary.

For the development of the seventh Church, elevated devotion, total sanc tity, and Will are necessary.

The Virtues and qualities are interrelated with the Kabalistic Tree, with its 10 numbers and correlations with the 7 Churches.

---

CHAPTER 80, THE KABALAH AND THE YEAR OF BIRTH

We will now continue with mathematics our whole life unfolds with mathematics. The Law of Karma develops with numbers.

EXAMPLE ONE

Eduardo de Portillo: Date of birth: 1932. To the year of birth, the same year is added.

1932
   1
   9
   3
   2
1947 = 1 + 9 + 4 + 7 = 21 (see Arcanum number 21)

21 = 2 + 1 = 3 (see Arcanum number 3)

1947
   1
   9
   4
   7
1968 = 1 + 9 + 6 + 8 = 24 (see Arcanum number 24)

24 2 + 4 = 6 the Lover. He met his fiancee in 1968.

1968
   1
   9
   6
   8
1992 = 1 + 9 + 9 + 2 = 21 (see Arcanum number 21).

21 = 2 + 1 = 3 marks a spiritual and economic triumph. That year will not be forgotten.

EXAMPLE 2

Arturo Aguirre: Date of birth: 1937.

1937
   1
   9
   3
   7
1957 = 1 + 9 + 5 + 7 = 22 = 2 + 2 = 4: Success in the material plane.

1957
   1
   9
   5
   7
1979=1 + 9 + 7 + 9 = 26 = 2 + 6 = 8

8: Tests and suffering; to have the patience of Job.

EXAMPLE 3

Luis Perez, year: 1920.

1920
   1
   9
   2
   0
1932= 1 + 9 + 3 + 2 = 15 => 1 + 5 = 6

6: Affliction of the heart, feeling; the 6 is related with the moral aspect that year his father died, and this was very grave.

1932
   1
   9
   3
   2
1947 = 1 + 9 + 4 + 7 = 21 => 2 + 1 = 3

3: Material and spiritual production.

1947
    1
    9
   4
    7
1968 = 1 + 9 + 6 + 8 = 24: The Weaver, he became trapped in his own web; sufferings which he had not left behind.

24 = 2 + 4 = 6: The Lover.

EXAMPLE 4

Nicholas Naranjo, year: 1946.

1946
   1
   9
   4
   6
1966 = 1 + 9 + 6 + 6 = 22 => 2 + 2 = 4

4: Success because he encountered Gnosis.

1966
   1
   9
   6
   6
1988 = 1 + 9 + 8 + 8 = 26 => 2 + 6 = 8

8: He will continue working with success.

---

CHAPTER 81, THE INNER URGENCY

The Inner Urgency is calculated by making the kabalistic addition of the date of birth, the day, the month and the year.

EXAMPLE 1

Victor Manuel Chavez: 17 November 1921.

Day 17 = 1 + 7 = 8
Month 11 = 1 + 1 = 2
Year 1921 = 1 + 9 + 2 + 1 = 13 = 1 + 3 = 4

Day 8
Month 2
Year 4

14 = 1 + 4 = 5

5: Arcanum 5 of the Tarot is rigor, study, science, analysis, investigation, intellect. That Inner Urgency makes him a reasoning person.

EXAMPLE 2

Mr Rodriguez: 5 June 1905.

Day 5
Month 6
Year 1905 = 1+ 9 + 0 + 5 = 15 => 1 + 5 = 6

Day 5
Month 6
Year 6

17 = 1 + 7 = 8

The 8 makes us patient, passive, energetic, just, upright. The person has had sufferings, struggles, study, has had to pass through many tests.

EXAMPLE 3

Eduardo de Portillo: 5 July 1932.

Day 5
Month 7
Year 1932 =1 + 9 + 3 + 2 = 15 => 1 + 5 = 6

Day 5
Month 7
Year 6

6 + 7 + 5 = 18 => 8 + 1 = 9

9: Ninth Sphere. The Hermit in the midst of all, seeking the light, will achieve the realisation of great genial works. The development of a tremendous energy has made him a Hermit upon the path of existence.

---

CHAPTER 82, THE FUNDAMENTAL TENDENCY

The Fundamental Tendency is the Inner Urgency plus the kabalistic sum of the number of letters in the complete name.

EXAMPLE 1

Victor Manuel Chavez Caballero: Inner Urgency = 5

VICTOR          MANUEL           CHAVEZ      CABALLERO
123456          123456           123456      123456789
6               6                6           9

6 + 6 + 6 + 9 = 27 => 2 + 7 = 9

(Inner Urgency) 14

9 + 5 = 14
14 = 1+ 4 = 5

5 - The Fundamental Tendency.

EXAMPLE 2

Federico Lauro Arce Heredia: Inner Urgency = 8.

FEDERICO        LAURO            ARCE        HEREDIA
12345678        12345            1234        1234567
8               5                4           7

8 + 5 + 4 + 7 = 24 = 2 + 4 = 6

6 + 8 (Inner Urgency) =14

14 = 1 + 4 = 5 - Fundamental Tendency.

5: He lives always thinking, reasoning, analysing.

EXAMPLE 3

Margarita Garcia Sancho Fernandez. Inner Urgency = 5.

MARGARITA             GARCIA        SANCHO         FERNANDEZ
123456789             123456        123456         123456789
9                     6             6              9

9 + 6 + 6 + 9 = 30 = > 3 + 0 = 3

3 + (Inner Urgency)

8 = Fundamental Tendency

8: Tests and pain, the number of reflectio n, advice, comprehension, analysis, patience, tests.

---

CHAPTER 83, THE TENDENCY OF THE DAY

The Tendency of the Day is calculated by adding the Fundamental Tendency to the kabahstic sum of the date we have chosen

By means of this system one knows how things will go so as to know how to act on that day

EXAMPLE 1

Victor Manuel Chavez : Day, 30 April 1969. Fundamental Tendency: 5.

Day 30 = 3 + 0 = 3
Month 4
Year 1969 = 1 + 9 + 6 + 9 = 25 => 2 + 5 = 7

Day 3
Month 4
Year 7

14 => 14 = 1 + 4 = 5

5 + 5 (Fundamental Tendency) = 10.

10 = 1 + 0 =   1 Tendency of the Day 30-4-1969

The 10 is the Wheel of Fortune change The 1 is initiative, that which begins, that which commences, originality force.

EXAMPLE 2

Mr Guillermo Hickie Tendency for 1-5-1969 Fundamental Tendency 8

Day 1
Month 5
Year 1969 = 1 + 9 + 6 + 9 = 25 => 2 + 5 = 7

Day 1
Month 5
Year 7

13 Death = 1 + 3 = 4 => 4 + 8 (Fundamental Tendency) = 12

12 = 1 + 2 = 3 => Tendency of the Day 1-5-1969.

The 3 is the artistic, the Three Primary Forces, material and spiritual production.
Production, increase, the beautiful, the creative, harmony, art, beauty.

EXAMPLE 3

Mr Gil: Tendency of 27 July, 1969. Fundamental Tendency: 3

Day 27 = 2 + 7=9
Month 7
Year 1969 1 + 9 + 6 + 9 = 25 => 2 + 5 = 7

Day 9
Month 7
Year 7

23 = 2 + 3 = 5 => 5 + 3: Fundamental Tendency = 8

The 8 is tests, suffering. Patience, cooperation must be increased, to know how to wait.
To reflect, seriousness of thought, to distinguish between the most and the least useful, between that which is, and that which is not. To not do things madly to scrutinise the pros and cons with patience each one of the numbers of the Kabalah must be studied in depth.

---

CHAPTER 84, THE EVENT OF THE DAY

One must know how to choose with exactitude the hour of the day or night so as to successfully realise any activity of life.

An hour, a day, a month, and a year can be chosen for particular things. We do not enter here into conventionality, for example, one should not use 21:00 hours, but rather 9:00 hours.

EXAMPLE 1

Victor Manuel Chavez:                 Date of Birth: 17-11-1921

Inner Urgency: 5.                     Fundamental Tendency: 5

Date to investigate: 14 May 1969.     Time of event: 9 a.m

Day 14 = 1 + 4 = 5
Month 5
Year 1969 = 1 + 9 + 6 + 9 = 25 => 2 + 5 = 7

Day 5
Month 5
Year 7

17 = 1 + 7 = 8

8 + 5 (Fundamental Tendency) = 13

13 = 1 + 3 = 4 => Tendency of the Day, 14-5-1969

With the 4 one must know how to balance dealings, the details of any activity.

The most interesting hour of that day was at 9 o’clock in the morning.

4 (Tendency of the Day) + 9 (Hour of the day) = 13

13 = 1 + 3 = 4

He, at that hour, had to deal with a matter in his work, and it worked out well.

The 4 is the base, is knowing how to tally matters.

EXAMPLE 2

Mrs Margarita Sancho Fernandez                 Date of Birth: 4 November, 1943

Inner Urgency: 5                              Fundamental Tendency: 8

Date to investigate: 13 June, 1969.

Day 13 = 1 + 3 = 4
Month 6
Year 1969 = 1 + 9 + 6 + 9 = 25 = 2 + 5 = 7

Day 4
Month 6
Year 7

17=1 + 7 = 8

8+8 (Fundamental Tendency) =16

1 + 6 = 7: Tendency of the Day 13-6-1969.

One must struggle so as not to fall, the energy must be intelligently di rected, one must struggle to raise oneself. The 16 is the Fuhninated Tower.

The Event of the day is at 11 o’clock at night. 11 = 1 + 1 = 2.

7 (Tendency of the Day) +2 (hour of the day) = 9. 9: Event of the Day.

Her Event of the Day is to work with the Ninth Sphere.

I have to dissent with many kabalists with respect to the hours, because they believe that the Inner Urgency is governed by particular planets at particular hours. We must take into account however, that the order of the calendar is altered, because it was thus convenient for the priests. The calendar of today is adulterated. The priests of the Middle Ages altered it with the purpose of making Sunday the seventh day.

The true calendar is:

         Present                        Authentic                      Astrological
         Sunday                          Monday                           Moon
         Monday                         Wednesday                       Mercury
         Tuesday                          Friday                          Venus
        Wednesday                        Sunday                            Sun
        Thursday                         Tuesday                           Mars
          Friday                        Thursday                         Jupiter
         Saturday                        Saturday                         Saturn

This is the most ancient order, because it is the order of the worlds in the Solar System.

The kabalists get themselves in a muddle if, to this, they add an adulterated calendar. On selecting a particular hour and day upon which to act, it fails, does no t give the result because it is adulterated. Mathematics is exact.

We must learn how to utilise the hours. With this system the exactitude of facts is proven.
The aspect of mathematics in the Kabalah is very important.

To apply the 22 Arcana to the hours is the authentic astral clock.

                                   PART FIVE

                                         ***

                         THE INITIATIC PATH

                      IN THE ARCANA OF THE

                       TAROT AND KABALAH

                                         ***

               THE KABALAH OF PREDICTION

                                         ***
   “Hear for I will speak of excellent things; and the opening of my lips shall be right
                                          things.

 For my mouth shall speak truth; and wickedness is an abomination to my lips. All the
 words of my mouth are in righteousness; there is nothing forward or perverse in them.

  They are all plain to him that understandeth, and right to them that find knowledge”.

                                    (Proverbs 8. 6-9)

---

CHAPTER 85, PREPARATION

The most elevated type of clairvoyance which exists in the universe is consciousness. All of the Avatars or messengers from the superior worlds have been supra-conscious clairvoyants. Hermes Trismegistus, Rama, Krishna, Buddha, Jesus Christ etc., were supra-conscious beings, messengers from the superior worlds, initiators of new eras of historical evo lution.

Imagination, inspiration, intuition are the three obligatory paths of initiation. We are going to examine each one of these levels separately.

Let us begin with Imagination.

For the wise, to imagine is to see. Imagination is the translucence of the Soul.

The important thing is to learn to concentrate thought in one single thing. He who learns to concentrate thought upon one single thing does marvels and prodigies.

The disciple who wishes to attain imaginative knowledge must learn to concentrate and to know how to meditate profoundly.

The best exercise for attaining imaginative knowledge is the following:

Sit in front of a plant and concentrate upon it until everything else which is not related to the plant is forgotten. Then closing the eyes we doze, maintaining in our imagination the form and shape of the plant, its structure, its perfume and its colour.

The disciple will imagine the living cells of the plant. The disciple must provoke sleep during these practices. Sleeping, the disciple will meditate profoundly upon the internal constitution of the plant; it possessing protoplasm, membrane and nucleus. The protoplasm is a viscous, transparent and elastic substance, very similar to the white of an egg (albuminous matter). The disciple, sleeping, must reflect upon the four fundamental elements of the protoplasm of the vegetable cell. These four elements are: carbon, oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen.

The membrane is a marve llous substance without colour which is to tally insoluble in water. This substance is the well-known cellulose.

Being well concentrated, the disciple will imagine the nucleus of the cell as a small corpuscle where the great universal life palpitates. Within the nucleus is the nuclear filament, the nuclear substance, and all of the nucleolus are enclosed within the nuclear membrane. The nucleolus are corpuscles full of infinite brilliance and beauty, residual products of the incessant reactions of the vegetable organism.

The disciple being deeply concentrated, must imagine with logical exactitude all of those mineral substances and organic combinations which harmoniously develop in the cellular protoplasm of the plant. To think of the grains of starch, and the marvellous chlorophyll without which it would be impossible to attain perfect organic synthesis. Chlorophyll comes in a granulated form (Chloroleucite) of a very beautiful yellow colour (xanthophyll). The latter takes on that beautiful plant green colour with the rays of the sun. Every plant is a perfect cellular community of incalculable perfection. The student must meditate upon the perfection of the plant and upon all of its scientific processes, being filled with a mystic beatitude, and enchanted with such beauty.

The mystic is ecstatic upon recalling all of the phenomena of nutrition, relation and reproduction of each plant cell.

Let us look at the chalice of a flower; its sexual organs are there. There we find the pollen, the masculine reproductive element. The pistil, or gineceo, the most precious feminine organ is there with its ovary, style and stigma.

The ovary is a sac filled with marvellous ova. With respect to the stamen, the pistil can occupy different positions; insertion from beneath the ovary, around the ovary, or above it.

Fecundation can be realised with the function of the feminine germs and the masculine gametes. The masculine gamete, the pollen, after leaving the anther then reaches the ovary of the plant where the ovum, the feminine gamete anxiously awaits it.

The seed is the precious and enchanting ovum, which after having been fecundated, is transformed and grows. The student will now recall in meditation that period, when it shoots as a delicate stem. He will imagine it slowly growing, until he sees with the imagination that it puts out branches, leaves and flowers. Remember that everything that is born must die. Imagine now the process of death of the plant; its flowers fade, its leaves wither and the wind carries them away, until finally only a few dry twigs remain.

This process of birth and death is marve lous. By meditating upon that whole process of the birth and death of a plant, by meditating upon the whole marvel of vegetable life, if the concentration is per fect and if deep sleep is attained, then the chakras of the Astral Body rotate, unfold, develop.

Meditation must be correct. The mind must be exact. Logical thought and exact concept are needed so that the internal senses develop in an absolutely perfect manner.

All incoherence, all lack of logic and of mortal equilibrium obstructs and damages the evolution and progress of the chakras, disks, or lotus flowers of the Astral Body. The student needs much patience, will, tenacit and absolute conscious faith. One day, in the midst of sleep a distant image will arise during the meditation, a vista of nature, a face, etc. This is the signal that one is progressing. Little by little the student elevates his imaginative knowledge. Little by little, the student will draw back the Veil of Isis. One

day the plant upon which one is meditating will disappear to be replaced by a beautiful child. That child is the el emental of the plant, the Soul of the plant.

Later, during sleep, one’s consciousness will awaken, and one is then able to say; “I am in the Astral Body”. The consciousness awakens little by little. The moment arrives on this Path when the disciple has acquired continuous consciousness.

Once the student enjoys continuous consciousness, he no longer dreams, he is unable to dream because his consciousness is awakened. Then, even when his body is sleeping, he moves consciously in the superior worlds.

Meditation which is exact awakens the internal senses and produces a total
transformation of the internal bodies. He who awakens conscious ness has attained imaginative knowledge. He moves in the world of sym bolic images.

Those images which were previously seen when one dreamt, are now seen without dreaming. Before they were seen in the sleeping conscious ness, now one moves amongst them with consciousness in a state of wakefulness, even though the physical body maybe deeply asleep. Upon attaining imaginative knowledge, the student sees the symbols but does not understand them. He understands that the whole of nature is a living scripture that he does not understand. He needs to elevate himself to inspired knowledge in order to interpret the sacred symbols of Great Nature.

Inspiration now we will study inspiration

Inspired knowledge confers upon us the power to interpret the symbols of Great Nature.
The interpretation of symbols is very delicate. Many clairvoyants become homicidal or commit the crime of public calumny because of not knowing how to interpret symbols.

Symbols must be coldly analysed without superstition, malice, suspicion, pride, vanity, fanaticism, prejudice, preconceptions, abhorrence, envy, avarice, jealousy etc. All defects are the “I”, the Myself, the reincarnating ego.

When the “I” intervenes, translating, interpreting symbols, then the meaning of the sacred script is altered and the clairvoyant commits the crime which can lead him to prison.

Interpretation must be tremendously analytical, highly scientific, and essentially mystical.
One must learn to see and to interpret in the ab sence of the “I”, the Myself.

It may seem strange to many mystics that we, the brethren of the Universal Gnostic Movement, speak of divine clairvoyance on the one hand, and of the penal code on the other. They who think in this manner con sider spirituality to be something apart, which does not have a relation ship with daily life. These persons do wrong; they are mistaken, ignore the fact that what every Soul is in the superior worlds is the exact result of the daily life which we all live in this vale of tears.

If our words, thoughts and acts are not just, then the result appears in the internal worlds and the Law comes down upon us.

Law is Law; ignorance of the Law does not exclude its fulfilment. The worst sin is ignorance. To teach him who does not know is an act of mercy. All the tremendous responsibility of the Law weighs upon those who are clairvoyant.

One must know how to interpret the symbols of Great Nature in the complete absence of the “I”. However, self-criticism must be increased, because when the “I” of the clairvoyant believes that it knows much, then one feels oneself to be infallible, omniscient, wise, and even considers that one sees and interprets in the absence of the “I”. This type of clairvoyance greatly strengthens the “I”, which ends up creating terribly perverse demons. When a clairvoyant of this type sees his own internal God, he then interprets the vision in accordance with his own tenebrous criteria, and exclaims: “I am doing very well.”

One must know how to interpret with a basis in the Law of Philosophical Analogies and the Law of Correspondences of the numeric Kabalah. We recommend the “Mystical Qabalah” of Dion Fortune. This book is marvellous. Study it.

He who has hatred, resentment, jealousy, envy, pride etc., will not attain the elevation to even the second level, called inspired knowledge. When we rise to inspired knowledge we understand and comprehend that the accidental accumulation of objects does not exist. All of the phe nomena of nature and all objects are really intimately organically linked to each other. They internally depend upon each other and mutually condition each other. Really, no phenomenon of nature may be integrally understood if we consider it in isolation.

Everything is in incessant movement, everything changes, nothing is still. An internal struggle exists within every object. The object is both positive and negative at the same time. Quantitative becomes qualitative. Evolution is a process of complication of energy.
Inspired knowledge allows us to know the interrelation between that which is, that which has been, and will be.

Matter is none other than condensed energy. The infinite modifications of energy are absolutely unknown both to historical materialism and to dialectic materialism.

Energy is equal to mass multiplied by the velocity of light, squared. We Gnostics separate ourselves from the antithetical struggle which exists between metaphysics and dialectic materialism. These are the two poles of ignorance, the two antitheses of error.

We take another path. We are Gnostic. We look at life as a complete whole. An object is a point in space which serves as a vehicle to determined sums of values.

Inspired knowledge allows us to study the intimate relationship existing between the forms and values of Great Nature.

Dialectic materialism does not know the values, only studies the object. Metaphysics does not know the values, neither knows the object.

We Gnostics distance ourselves from the two antitheses of ignorance; we study man and nature integrally.

Life is all energy, both determined and determining. Life is subject and object at the same time.

The disciple who wishes to attain inspired knowledge should concen trate profoundly upon music. The “Magic Flute” of Mozart reminds us of an Egyptian Initiation. The Nine Symphonies of Beethoven and many other great classical compositions elevate us to the superior worlds.

The disciple, deeply concentrated upon the music, will observe himself in it, like a bee in honey, the product of all his work.

When the disciple has attained inspired knowledge, he must then pre pare himself for intuitive knowledge.

Intuituion

The world of intuition is the world of mathematics. The student who wishes to elevate himself to the world of intuition must be mathematical, or at least have a notion of arithmetic. Mathematical formulae con fer intuitive knowledge.

The student should concentrate upon a mathematical formula and meditate profoundly upon it. Later, to empty the mind, to put it in a totally blank state, and then to wait until our internal Being teaches us the con tent of the concept enclosed in the mathematical formula. For example, before Kepler publicly pronounced his famous principle, that “the periods of revolution of the planets around the Sun squared, are equal to the cubes of their distances”, the formula already existed, was contained within the solar system, even though the learned men did not know it.

The student can mentally concentrate in this formula, empty the mind, doze with the mind in a blank state and wait for his own internal Being to reveal all of the marvellous secrets contained in the formula of Kepler.

Newton’s formula concerning universal gravitation can also serve us as an exercise in Initiation. This formula is the following: “Bodies are attracted to each other in a direct relationship with their mass and in an inverse relationship to the square of their distances.”

If the student practices with tenacity and supreme patience, his own internal Being will teach or instruct him in the work. Then he will study at the feet of the Master, will be elevated to intuitive knowledge. Imagination, Inspiration and Intuition are the three

obligatory Paths of Initiation. He who has ascended the three steps of direct knowledge has attained supra-consciousness.

In the World of Intuition we only find omniscience. The World of Intuition is the world of the Being, is the world of the Intimus.

The “I”, the Myself, the ego cannot enter that world. The World of Intuition is the Universal Spirit of Life.

The World of Imaginative Kno wledge is a world of symbolic images.

Inspiration confers upon us the power to interpret symbols.

In the World of Intuition we see the great cosmic theatre, and we are the spectators. We are present at the great drama of life.

In that World, all of the drama which is represented on the cosmic stage reduces to tremendous arithmetical operations. That is the amphitheatre of cosmic science.

From that region of mathematics we see that there exists physical mass which is above and below the limits of externa l sensorial perception. It is mass which is invisible; it is only perceived with clairvoyance.

Matter is condensed energy. When the vibration is very slow, the mass is beneath the limits of external sensorial perception. When the vibratory movement is very fast, the mass is above the limits of external sensory perception. With a telescope it is only possible for us to see worlds whose level of vibration is active within the limits of external sensory perception. Above and below the limits of external sensory perception, there exist worlds, solar systems, and constellations which are populated by living beings of all kinds.

So-called matter is energy which condenses into infinite forms of mass. The external senses of perception are able to perceive very little.

Dialectic materialism and metaphysics are now out of date and antiquated.

We the Gnostic brethren proceed along a different path.

It is urgent for the men of science to study the treatise of occult science by Doctor Rudolph Steiner, the great Hungarian medical doctor born in 1861. He was a friend and disciple of Nietzsche and of Ernst Haeckel, founder of the Anthropological Society.

It is indispensable that they who are lovers of science deeply investigate all of the portentous Oriental wisdom flowing like a river of gold from the immortal pages of the Secret Doctrine.

This work consists of six volumes and is a monument of archaic wisdom.

The great Master H.P.B. is the brilliant author of that precious treasure of ancient wisdom.

Those who attain supra-consciousness, become true illuminated clairvoyants. No authentic clairvoyant boasts about his faculties.

No legitimate clairvoyant says that he is clairvoyant.

When a true clairvoyant sees something important, he presents his concept with great culture and with supreme respect for his fellowman. He never says: “I am seeing.” He always says: “We regard”, “We have learnt.” Such are they who have reached the ineffable summits of supra-conscious ness; they are distinguished by their thivalry humility and modesty.

Read “Kundalini Yoga” of Sivananda. Meditate upon the blessed White Lodge.
Scrutinise Gnostic treasures. Meditate upon the profound symbolism contained in each one of the Arcana of the Tarot.

They who attain the heights of supra-consciousness enter the amphitheatre of Cosmic Science.

The triple path of science, philosophy, and revolutionary cosmic mysticism, leads us to the ineffable regions of the Great Light.

Gnosis is highly scientific, highly philosophical, and transcendentally mystical.

Note:

This chapter is a transcription of number 22 of the book “Fundamental Notions of Endocrinology and Criminology”. In order for the student to complete his preparation so as to be able to use the Kabalah of Prediction with all of the purity which is an indispensable prerequisite, he may study chapter 17: The Esoteric Discipline of the Mind, from the book: “Igneous Rose”, which complements the chapter given here. Meditate profoundly upon the number of this chapter (85), and upon its kabalistic additio ns. Search with that which is most profound within your Soul, so that here you may find the key for the preparation of the Kabalah of Prediction. 85 = 8 + 5 = 13 = 1 + 3 = 4. 8 - Patience, 5 -Intelligence, 13- Mystic Death, 3- Work with the Divine Mother, 1 - Will, 4 - Work with the Cross, with sex.

---

CHAPTER 86, PREDICTION AND SYNTHESIS

ARCANUM 1
The Magician: Man “Sword, Will, Power.”

ARCANUM 2
The Priestess: The Wife of the Magician “Occult Science. Favourable”.

ARCANUM 3
The Empress: The Divine Mother “Spiritual and material production.”

ARCANUM 4
The Emperor “Rule, Progress, Success, Mercy.”

ARCANUM 5
The Hierarch: Rigor. The Law “Karma, Mars, War.”

ARCANUM 6
Indecision: The Lover “Victory, Good Luck.”

ARCANUM 7
Triumph: The War Chariot “Wars, Struggles, Atonement. Pain, Bitterness”.

ARCANUM 8
Justice: The Arcanum of Job “Suffering, Tests, Pain.”

ARCANUM 9
The Hermit: Initiation “Solitude, Suffering.”

ARCANUM 10
Retribution: The Wheel of Fortune “Successful dealings. Changes.”

ARCANUM 11
Persuasion: The Tame Lion “Favour of the Law. Have no Fear. Mars.”

ARCANUM 12
The Apostolate: Sacrifice “Tests and Pain. The ArcanumA.Z.F takes away the pain.”

ARCANUM 13
Immortality: Death and Resurrection “Transformations. Indicates Total Change.”

ARCANUM 14
Temperance: Matrimonial Association “Long Life. Stability. No Change.”

ARCANUM 15
Passion: Typhoon Baphomet “Failure in Love. Advises of Dangers.”

ARCANUM 16
Fragility: The Fulminated Tower “Punishment. Terrible Fall. Avoid this Date.”

ARCANUM 17
Hope: The Star of Hope “Signifies Hope and Wait.”

ARCANUM 18
Twilight: Hidden Enemies “Hidden Enemies appear at any Moment. Illnesses. No Dealings.”

ARCANUM 19
Inspiration: The Radiant Sun “Successes. Good Luck. The Philosophical Stone.”

ARCANUM 20
Resurrection: The Resurrection of the Dead “Favourable Changes, take advantage of them. Put an end to weaknesses.”

ARCANUM 21
Transmutation: The Fool, Foolishness “Total Demoralisation due to evil. The Magic Key, Rune Olin. The Antithesis; enemies of Hiram Abiff.”

ARCANUM 22
The Return: The Truth, The Crown of Life “Triumph, Everything turns out well. Power.
Force. Good Luck.”

---

CHAPTER 87, ARCANUM NUMBER 1

Arcanum number 1 means that which initiates, that which begins, that which is sown, that which commences. Every beginning is difficult. One must work hard to sow in order to be able to reap. It gives aptitude for resolving problems. It confers power both to awaken and to dominate the passions in the physical world.

It tends towards the organisation of natural elements and the dominion of forces in movement. It gives the aptitude to acquire, order, to model, to apply.

Arcanum 1 is Unity, the Principle of Light, the Father, the world as manifestation, man as a living unity complete in himself, the foundation of reason, of all actions, the synthesis of all, the Initiation in the Mysteries and the power to decipher them and make use of them, volitive power. Arcanum 1 gives Triumph, but with a struggle due to karma.

Kabalistic Sephiroth: “Kether”.

Hebraic Letter: “Aleph.”

Transcendent Axiom: “Be in your deeds as you are in your thoughts.”

Element of Prediction: “Promises dominion of material obstacles, new social relationships, happy initiatives, the confluence of faithful friends who help in the development of projects, and jealous friends who obstruct them.”

---

CHAPTER 88, ARCANUM NUMBER 2

By means of this Arcanum the Matrix is made, is modelled, where images take form.
Arcanum 2 is the Thesis expounding the Antithesis. It is the Fount which accumulates the waters of the Spring. It is the dual manifestation of the Unity. Upon dividing, the Unity gives origin to receptive, productive femininity in all nature.

Kabalistic Sephiroth: “Chochmah.”

Hebraic letter: “Beth”.

Transcendent Axiom: “The wind and the waves always favour he, who knows how to navigate.”

Element of Prediction: “Attractions and repulsions, losses and gains, ascents and descents. Inspiration favourable to initiative and the secret opposition of agents so as to lead that which has been begun to a favour able end.”

---

CHAPTER 89, ARCANUM NUMBER 3

It is said that Arcanum number 3 is the Modeller, this is clearly by means of the Verb; in all creation, in all nature it models everything. Arcanum number 3 signifies Success, is material as well as spiritual production.

Kabalistic Sephiroth: “Binah”.

Hebraic Letter: “Gimel.”

Transcendent Axiom: “Your loom is weaving; cloth for your use and cloths which you need not use.”

Element of Prediction: “Increase of material goods, prosperity in dealings, abundance, wealth, success. Obstacles to overcome, and satisfaction to the extent that they are overcome.”

---

CHAPTER 90, ARCANUM NUMBER 4

The four concordances exist in Arcanum number 4. These are: Affirma tion, Negation, Discussion, Seduction.

Kabalistic Sephiroth: “Chesed.”

Hebraic Letter: “Daleth.”

Transcendent Axiom: “Bless the work of your hands; and into the labour of thought, put heart.”

Element of Prediction: “Promises material gains, bases for higher ventures, favourable results for effort invested and difficult conditions in order to attain them. Friendships are simultaneously an aid and an obstacle. Luck is at the same time for and against”.

---

CHAPTER 91, ARCANUM NUMBER 5

Arcanum number 5 is Indication, Demonstration, Teaching, Karmic Law, Philosophy, Science, Art. It is Law, Rigor.

Kabalistic Sephiroth: “Geburah”.

Hebraic Letter: “He”.

Transcendent Axiom: “I have heard of you by ear, but my eyes now see you and my heart now feels you.”

Element of Prediction: “Liberty and restrictions, new experiences, acquisition of useful teachings, loves and affairs, voyages of ill- fated out come. Propitious friends and friends of fellowmen. Beings and things which come and go; those who come in order to leave, and those who leave in order to return.”

---

CHAPTER 92, ARCANUM NUMBER 6

Arcanum number 6 is the Lover, enchainment, equilibrium, terrible struggle between Love and Desire. The loving union between man and woman, linking. It is the supreme affirmation of the Internal Christ and the su preme negation of the demon.

One finds in Arcanum number 6 that one must choose this or that Path. The struggle between the two ternaries is in Arcanum number 6. The Mysteries of the Lingam-Yoni.

Kabalistic Sephiroth: “Tiphereth.”

Hebraic Letter: “Vau. ”

Transcendent Axiom: “Lord, you give me works, but with them, strength.”

Element of Prediction: “Privileges and duties in the relations between the sexes. The antagonism of forces. Separations and divorces. Possession of that which is sought and ardent desires which are fulfilled; some which satisfy and others, which disappoint.”

---

CHAPTER 93, ARCANUM NUMBER 7

Arcanum number 7 is Struggle, Battle, Difficulties. The Warrior must learn to use the Staff and the Sword; thus he will attain great victory. Our motto is Thelema (Will).

Kabalistic Sephiroth: “Netzach.”

Hebraic Letter: “Zain.”

Transcendent Axiom: “When science enters your heart and your Soul has been
sweetened by wisdom, ask and it will be given you.”

Element of Prediction: “Promises magnetic power, appropriate intellection (the union of the intellect and the intuition), justice and reparations, honour and dishonour, to achieve that which one pursues with determination, satisfactions and setbacks.”

---

CHAPTER 94, ARCANUM NUMBER 8

Arcanum number 8 signifies hard tests; it is Rectitude, Justice, Equilibrium. One must seek the good, cost what it may, just as the Masters of Medicine, when they treat an ill person who is dying. They try to save them because that is the Law; they fulfil Doing Good.

Within Arcanum number 8 are to be found Initiatic tests. Kabalistic Sephiroth: “Hod”.

Hebraic Letter: “Cheth.”

Transcendent Axiom: “Build an altar in your heart, but do not make of your heart an altar.”

Element of Prediction: “Promises retributions, punishment and compensation, gratitude and ingratitude. Compensation for services rendered.”

---

CHAPTER 95, ARCANUM NUMBER 9

Arcanum number 9 is the Hermit, prudent and wise; it is Solitude.

In the Ninth Sphere there is great suffering.

Supreme Pain exists in the Ninth Sphere, as Dante said m Divine Comedy”. One must learn to understand, one must learn to suffer, to be resigned. Those who do not fail.

Kabalistic Sephiroth: “Jesod.”

Hebraic Letter: “Teth.”

Transcendent Axiom: “Ascend the mountain and contemplate the promised land, but I do not say that you will go thither.”

Element of Prediction: “Promises science so as to make discoveries; order upon realising them, and caution to make use of them. Favourable associations and ill- fated associations. Friend s who help, and friends who obstruct. Light of reason and light of intuition; the first for that which is imminent, and the second for that which must be.”

---

CHAPTER 96, ARCANUM NUMBER 10

From the esoteric point of view, Arcanum number 10 is really transcendental. The circle with a dot in the centre is a totally phallic symbol; the point elongated, becomes a line the Lingam. If we place the line to the left, it forms the number 10; in this number are to be found all of the secrets of the Lingam- Yoni; the laws of irradiation and absorption. It is not possible to attain Intimate Self-Realisation without having worked in the Sahaja Maithuna.

Arcanum number 10 is the Wheel of Samsara, the Cosmogenic Wheel of Ezekiel. In that wheel we find the battle of the antitheses. In that wheel is contained the complete secret of the Tree of Knowledge.

Arcanum number 10 is the Wheel of the Centuries; is the tragic wheel which is the Law of Ancient Return. It is logical that this law is inti mately linked with the Law of Recurrence that is to say, that everything comes to pass just as it has happened before, with the addition of the good or bad consequences. Dramas repeat this is called Karma.

Kabalistic Sephiroth: “Malchuth”.

Hebraic Letter: “Iod.”

When we ask for something, many times the Angels respond by show ing us a clock. The disciple must take note of the time on the clock; that is the clock of destiny. The answer is to be found in the hour. The answer is always given to one in the esoteric allegory of the clock. One must learn to understand the clock.

Hour: The First Hour of Apollonius. “Transcendental study of occultism.”

Transcendent Axiom: “Costly is the knowledge which you buy with experience, and more costly that which you still need to buy.”

Element of Prediction: “Promises good and bad fortune, ascents and descents, legitimate possessions, and dubious possessions. Recommendations of past contingencies and circumstances which repeat in a different form.”

---

CHAPTER 97, ARCANUM NUMBER 11

Arcanum number 11 is the work with the Fire, with the Force of Love.

Persuasion is in essence, a subtle, spiritual force. Occult wisdom says: “Arouse the flame of the spirit with the force of Love.”

Persuasion has more power than violence.

Hebraic Letter: “Kaph.”

Hour: The Second Hour of Apollonius.

Transcendent Axiom: “Content in hope, long-suffering in tribulation, be constant in prayer.”

Element of Prediction: “Promises control over the direction which one follows, the dominion of the elements, vitality, rejuvenation, the gaining and loss of friends because of family matters. Sorrows, obstacles, jealousy, betrayals, and resignation to withstand setbacks.”

---

CHAPTER 98, ARCANUM NUMBER 12

Arcanum number 12 implies sacrifices, sufferings, it is the card of the Apostolate.

Arcanum number 12 brings much suffering, many struggles. It has a very nice synthesis because 1 + 2 = 3, which signifies material as well as spiritual productivity being powerful spiritually and socially. This Arcanum promises struggle in the economic and social aspect.

Hebraic Letter: “Lamed”.

Hour: Third Hour of Apollonius. “The Serpents, the Dogs and the Fire”. (Sexual Magic, work with Kundalini.)

Transcendent Axiom: “Although the Sun tires you by day and the Moon saddens you at night, do not lose your foothold, nor sleep whilst on guard.”

Element of Prediction: “Promises distressing setbacks, falls. Material losses in some conditions of life and gains in others. Presentiments which encourage, and presentiments which discourage.”

---

CHAPTER 99, ARCANUM NUMBER 13

Arcanum number 13 is Death, but it can also signify something new, there may be wealth, there may be poverty, it is a number of great synthesis.

Arcanum number 13 contains the gospel of Judas. Judas represents the death of the “I”.
The gospel of Judas is that of Death, it is the dissolution of the ego. Judas symbolises the ego which one must decapitate.

Hebraic Letter: “Mem”.

Hour: Fourth Hour of Apollonius. “The neophyte will wander at night amongst the sepulchres, will experience the horror of visions, he will be delivered up to Magic and to Goethia”. (This means that the disciple will see himself attacked by millions of black magicians in the Astral Plane. These tenebrous magicians try to divert the disciple from the luminous path).

Transcendent Axiom: “Night has passed and a new day has arrived, so gird yourself with the arms of light.”

Element of Prediction: “Promises disappointments, disillusionments, death of affections, refusal of that which is sought, collapse, pure delight and pleasure to the Soul, painful improvements, the help of friends. Re newal of conditions, from good to bad, and from bad to good. The good, deteriorating, the bad, improving.”

---

CHAPTER 100, ARCANUM NUMBER 14

Arcanum number 14 is Chastity, Transmutation, the Waters. One must work hard, chiselling the Stone, without which one cannot achieve sexual transmutation.

Hebraic Letter: “Nun”.

Hour: Fifth Hour of Apollonius. “The superior waters of heaven.” (Dur ing this time the disciple learns to be pure and chaste because he under stands the value of the seminal fluid.)

Transcendent Axiom: “Do not be like straw before the wind, nor like the wind before straw.”

Element of Prediction: “Promises friendships, reciprocal affections, obligations, chemical combinations and combinations of interests, afflicted loves, devoted loves, treacherous loves. Things which remain, and things which go; the first in order to depart, the second in order to return.”

---

CHAPTER 101, ARCANUM NUMBER 15

Arcanum number 15 is the pluralised “I”, which esoterically is called Satan.

Arcanum number 15 represents Passion which is based in the Luciferic Fire. It is necessary to know that the principal defect is sexual passion, lust.

In the kabalistic synthesis of Arcanum 15 we have 1 + 5 = 6, the 6 is sex. This means that sex is the major force which can liberate man, but is also the major force which can enslave him.

Arcanum 15 signifies the work with the demon the process of dissolution of the “I”.

Eden is sex itself, and the internal beast, the psyc hological “I” which blocks our way to Eden, is at the doorway of sex so as to invite us to ejaculate the seminal fluid, or to divert us from that doorway by making us look at schools, theories, sects etc.

Hebraic Letter: “Samech”.

Hour: Sixth Hour of Apollonius. “Here it is necessary to remain quiet, still due to fear (this signifies the terrible test of the Guardian of the Threshold, before whom one needs great valour to triumph.)

Transcendent Axiom: “They made me ward of the vineyards, and the vineyard which was mine, I have not kept.”

Element of Prediction: “Promises controversies, passions, misfortunes. Prosperity by way of legality and fate. Harmful affections, both to him who feels them and to him who is the object of them. Vehement yearnings and violent situations”

---

CHAPTER 102, ARCANUM NUMBER 16

The departure from Eden coincides with Arcanum number 16. Eden or Paradise must be understood as sex itself. We left by the doors of sex, and only through them will we return.

Arcanum 16 is very dangerous. It is necessary to awaken consciousness so as to not wander blindly. The blind can fall to the abyss.

The Initiate who spills the Vessel of Hermes inevitably falls.

The struggle between brain, heart and sex is terrible. If sex dominates the brain, the five-pointed star, the Pentagram is inverted and man, with his head pointing downwards and his two feet pointing upwards, is hurled to the depths of the abyss. He falls, fulminated with Arcanum 16. He who allows himself to fall, falls with Arcanum 16 which is the Fulminated Tower. They are those who have failed with the Great Work of the Father.

Hebraic Letter: “Ajin.”

Hour: Seventh Hour of Apollonius. “The fire comforts the inanimate beings, and if some Priest, a man who is sufficiently purified steals it and projects it, if it is mixed with holy oil and consecrated, it will attain the curation of all illness simply by applying it to the affected part.” (The Initiate here sees his material wealth threatened and his dealings fail.)

Transcendent Axiom: “Light at dawn, light at midday, light at nightfall, what is important is that there be light.”

Element of Prediction: “Promises unforeseen accidents, storms, commotions, deaths.
Benefits deriving from good and bad circumstances. Reciprocity: in love and in hatred, in indifference and in zeal, in betrayal and in loyalty.”

---

CHAPTER 103, ARCANUM NUMBER 17

The eight-pointed star always represents Venus, the Morning Star. In Arcanum number 17 we find the Venustic Initiation.

The symbol of Venus shows us that the Circle of the Spirit must be above the Cross of Sex, that is to say, sex under the control of the Spirit. The sign inverted, indicates that the Spirit is dominated by sex.

Hebraic Letter: “Pe”.

Hour: Eighth Hour of Apollonius. “The astral virtues of the elements, of the seeds of every kind.”

Transcendent Axiom: “Some men beg for signs so as to fall, others beg for wisdom so as to act, but the hopeful heart has all in its hopes.”

Element of Prediction: “Promises intuition, sustenance, illumination, births, brief afflictions and brief satisfactions, annoyances and reconciliations, privations, abandonments and gains.”

---

CHAPTER 104, ARCANUM NUMBER 18

The kabalistic synthesis of Arcanum 18 is 1 + 8 = 9, the Ninth Sphere, sex. If we add 9 + 9 = 18, in it there is a balance. One 9 is the positive aspect and the other is the negative aspect, but in essence, the number 18 is negative, harmful, the secret enemies of the Arcanum of Twilight. In the work of the Ninth Sphere one must struggle a great deal, because one must learn to sublimate the sexual energy; here is the code, or Key to all Empires.

In Arcanum 18 we find the dangers of initiation, the hidden and secret enemies who set out to disrupt the initiation, the subterranean struggle in the dominion of the Ninth Sphere.

In Arcanum 18 we have to fight bloody battles against the tenebrous, the Black Lodge, the abyss, temptation, the demons who do not want the Initiate to escape from their claws.

This is the Path of the Razor’s Edge. This is the Path which is filled with dangers, both within and without, as the Venerable Master Sivananda says. In the internal worlds the tenebrous of Arcanum 18 assault the student violently.

In the terrible Arcanum 18 we find the witchcraft of Thessaly, here are found the potions of Canidia, erotic magic ceremonies, rites to make one fall in love, dangerous philtres etc.
We must warn Gnostic students that the most dangerous potion which the tenebrous use to take the student from the Path of the Razor’s Edge is the intellect.

Hebraic Letter: “Tzadhi.”

Hour: Ninth Hour of Apollonius. “Here nothing has yet finished. The Initiate augments his perception to even exceed the limits of the solar system, beyond the zodiac. He reaches the threshold of the infinite. He reaches the limits of the intelligible world. The divine Light is revealed, and with it, appear new fears and dangers. (The study of the Minor Mys teries, the nine arcades through which the student must rise.)

Transcendent Axiom: “May the granary of your charity be inexhaustible, and your patience no less inexhaustible than your charity.”

Element of Prediction: “Promises instability, inconstancy, traps, confusion, changes, uncertain situations, long deliberations, unexpected impediments, belated results, apparent triumphs and failures.”

---

CHAPTER 105, ARCANUM NUMBER 19

Arcanum number 19 in the Kabalah of Prediction promises total Victory, be it through one’s own efforts or with the help of other persons. Arcanum number 19 is the Arcanum of Victory, or Success. This victory is related with all aspects of life, economic, social, political, moral, etc. The kabalistic synthesis of Arcanum 19 is 1 + 9 = 10 the 10 is a pro foundly sexual number, here we have the circle and the line, the Mysteries of the Lir’igam- Yoni. It is not possible to attain Self- Realisation except by means of the transmutation of the sexual energy.

In Arcanum 19 a Great Alliance is established between two Souls. Man and woman must kill desire to achieve the Great Alliance, to realise the Great Work.

Hebraic Letter: “Koph.”

Hour: Tenth Hour of Apollonius. “The doors of the heavens open and man comes out of his lethargy.” (This is the number 10 of the second great initiation of Major Mysteries which allows the Initiate to travel with the Etheric Body. This is the wisdom of John the Baptist.)

Transcendent Axiom: “Take the shield of your faith and advance with decisive step, be it with a favourable wind, or against all winds.”

Element of Prediction: Promises the increase of power, success in undertakings. Joy in the works which are realised. Benefits from compen sations for one’s own efforts and those of others. Inheritances. Clarity concerning what is desired, fire which consumes that which is desired.”

---

CHAPTER 106, ARCANUM NUMBER 20

Arcanum number 20 is the Resurrection of the dead. The Resurrection of the Soul is really only possible through Cosmic Initiation. Human beings are dead and can only resuscitate by means of Initiation.

Hebraic letter: “Resch.”

Hour: Eleventh Hour of Apollonius. “The Angels, the Cherubim and the Seraphim fly with the murmur of their wings, there is rejoicing in Heaven, the Earth and the Sun which springs from Adam awaken.” (This process belongs to the great initiations of Major Mysteries where only the terror of the Law reigns).

Transcendent Axiom: “The apple tree in flower, fruit on the vine sown in maturity”.

Element of Prediction: “Promises harmo nious choices, fortunate initiatives, works, gains.
Compensations for the good and the bad. Faithful friends who annul the actions of treacherous friends. Jealousies for the good which one enjoys. Afflictions due to losses.”

---

CHAPTER 107, ARCANUM NUMBER 21

Arcanum 21 can be represented by the Pentagonal Star inverted which represents Black Magic.

Arcanum 21 is Failure, Foolishness, the Fool of the Tarot. In the work of Self- Realisation one is exposed to committing folly. One must work with the Three Factors for the Revolution of Consciousness.

1: To be Born.
2: To Die.
3: Sacrifice for others.

Transmutation: Indicates that one must transmute. The brain must con trol sex. When the brain loses control (of sex), when sex achieves the domination of the brain, then the five-pointed star, man, goes headfirst to the abyss. This is the inverted Pentagram, the symbol of Black Magic. The danger is indicated with precision in this Arcanum by the crocodile.

Hebraic Letter: “Shin.”

Hour: Twelfth Hour of Apollonius. “The Towers of Fire disturb.” (This is the triumphant entry of the Master into the limitless joy of Nirvana, or on the other hand the renunciation of the joy of Nirvana for love of hu manity; and he becomes a Bodhisattwa of Compassion).

Transcendent Axiom: “My Soul does not enter his secret, nor my ship, his harbor.”

Element of Prediction: “Promises privation of something which one en joys, blurring of reason upon trying to attain that which one wants, ruin in that, in which one has most vanity, danger of isolation, treacherous gifts, deceitful promises, the end of some things and the beginning of others.”

---

CHAPTER 108, ARCANUM NUMBER 22

Arcanum number 22 is the Crown of Life, the Return to the Light, the Incarnation of Truth in us.

The kabalistic synthesis of Arcanum 22 is 2 + 2 = 4; man, woman, fire and water; the Iod-He-Vau-He, man, woman, phallus, uterus. Here we have the Holy and Mysterious Tetragrammaton, the Holy Four.

Hebraic Letter: “Tau.”

Hour: There exists the Thirteenth Hour which is that of Liberation.

Transcendent Axiom: “The sun rises and the sun sets and it returns once again to the place where it will be reborn.”

Element of Prediction: “Promises long life, inheritances, distinctions, enjoyment of honest pleasures, rivals who challenge affections, friends who keep vigil for us, obstacles and the aptitude to overcome them, uncertain situations and contingencies which clarify them.”

                         CONSULTING THE TAROT
1. Light the candles on the altar or simply use three candles.

2. Lay out the Pentagram.

3. Separate the 22 major Arcana from the minor.

4. Cross yourself, and seal your self with the Microcosmic Star. Invoke the Father and ask Him for the illumination of the Holy Spirit.

5. Shuffle the 22 major Arcana; with the cards face downwards, take out a major Arcanum and place it aside without looking at it.

6. Shuffle the 56 minor Arcana and take out a card; shuffle again and take out another minor Arcanum; 3 cards in total.

7. Add the major Arcanum to the result of the sum of the two digits of each one of the minor ones. If the result is greater than 22, add the digits once again; the final result is the card of prediction, the result. This is further clarified with the prediction of the 2 minor Arcana.

EXAMPLE NUMBER 1:

                                              11

                                       26           42
11 + 8 + 6 = 25

25 = 2 + 5 = 7 (Answer: Triumph)

The Tame Lion: 11

The Prodigy: 26 = 2 + 6 = 8

Pre-eminence: 42 = 4 + 2 = 6

Result:

                                            11

                                       26         42

                                              7 (Answer)
EXAMPLE NUMBER 2:

                                            10

                                       30         59
Retribution:   10

Interchange: 30 = 3 + 0 = 3

Revelation:    59 = 5 + 9 = 14 => 1 + 4 = 5

10 + 3 + 5 = 18

18 (Answer: Twilight)

Result:

                                            10

                                    30             59

                                            18 (Answer: Twilight)

It is necessary to know the 22 Arcana. Once they are known, one will be able to use the practical part of prediction intelligently in matters of great importance.

It is necessary to know the meaning of the prediction. The cards are ar ranged from the astral, mathematical point of view. One begs the help of the Holy Spirit; number and mathematics are used. All of the Laws are made up of Numbers, Weight and Measure.

Many people use the Tarot in an empirical manner and thus use it badly. The final thing which is taught in kabalistic prediction: In order that we may use the numbers wisely we must study, must comprehend the meaning of each card.

                               Samael Aun Weor
