ZODIACAL COURSE By SAMAEL AUN WEOR

---

ARIES

From the 21 of March to the 19 of April.
Rules: The Head
Metal: Iron
Stone: Ruby and Diamond
Perfume: Myrrh
Plant: The Oak
Flower: The Red Carnation
Planet: Mars
Color: Red
Element: Fire
Key Word: Action
Day: Tuesday
Ruler: Samael

On entering these studies of esoteric Astrology, I should give you a few prior instructions that will serve as positive orientation in these classes.
In the stellar nucleus of all sidereal sun, planet, every lunar satellite or comet, there always exists a “heart temple” which is the secret dwelling of a sidereal genie. Thus, the entire infinite is a system of hearts. This is why esoteric Astrology is the religion of light and the heart.
Each of our sidereal planets has its Sidereal Ruler:
Gabriel is the Ruler of the Moon
Raphael is the Ruler of Mercury
Uriel is the Ruler of Venus
Michael is the Ruler of the Sun
Samael is the Ruler of Mars
Zachariel is the Ruler of Jupiter
Orifiel is the Ruler of Saturn
These are the seven spirits before the throne of God. As we have already said, each of them dwells in a heart-temple, and because of it, esoteric Astrology is the religion of light and love.
These are the seven angels who distribute among them the governing of the world in seven different eras, since the entire history of the world is summarized in seven eras.
The seven planets are the cords of a divine lyre where the word of the creator resounds with its most ineffable melody.
The entire solar system happens to be the celestial body of the great Being: the “Logos” of the solar system, the “Ineffable”.
The solar system seen from afar, looks like a man walking through the ineffable infinite.
The seven spirits before the throne, happen to be, we can say, their ministers and the rulers of the cosmic evolution of this solar system.
Very well; thou know that every wheel has its axis, and because of this, thou will, therefore, understand that the base of motion resides at the center of every mass.
Mass can only be dominated from its center and the center of all mass is the spirit. Due to this, we affirm that a heart temple, which is the dwelling of the genie of the star, exists in every sidereal center. These celestial genii are precisely the authentic governors of the infinite, and rulers and lords of our own human destinies.
Profane astrologers will tell you, for example, that a quadrature of Saturn with Mars brings you a catastrophe, or that an opposition of Venus and Mars, a failure, in love, etc., but these forecasts by profane astrology can fail even when the mathematical calculations are exact, because these sidereal forces are not blind forces.
These forces are precisely the rays of the planetary genii, and these masters can modify all human events even when the horoscope is full of quadratures and oppositions. So that
Arithmetic Astrology is not exact; for which reason I consider that one cannot be an authentic Astrologer without being a magician in Alchemy. Lamblichus, the great magician, invoked the planetary genii and materialized them in the physical world to talk to them, and it was through them that he accomplished his great marvels.
Divine magic can only be practiced through the “Inner Self” of the “magician”, and the
Inner Self is our spirit, our “Superior Self”, our Angel. It is also true that Nature is a great alchemical laboratory where essences exist and events of all types are combined.
In the schools of inner instruction, we are made to learn these golden rules:
“The Lion of the Law is combated with the Scale”.
“When an inferior law is transcended by a superior law, the superior law washes away the inferior law”.
The absolute comprehension of these two golden rules allows us to neutralize the disastrous effects of all the quadratures and oppositions of our personal horoscope. This means that through these golden rules we can destroy Karma and we can triumph in life.
Record these two golden rules properly in your mind, for I will teach you how to manipulate its formulae in the coming lessons.
This course of Esoteric Astrology will convert you into magicians and alchemists and will develop all your occult powers. Thou shalt then know how to make thyself invisible, how to invoke and materialize the planetary Gods in the physical world, how to talk with them; how to kill Karma, and the secret art of succeeding in life through certain mysterious formulae that will permit thee to manipulate the sidereal rays for thy own ends and to help others. Now, to end this preamble of our present lesson, I will tell thee, that two columns exist at the door (portico) of all sidereal time: one white and the other black. The column at the right is called “JACHIN” and the left column is called “BOAZ”.
You should also know, good disciple, that there is a guardian at each column. The guardian at the right column holds the staff of justice in his hands, and the one at the left holds a book in his hands.
Jachin and Boaz are the two “passwords” that will permit thee to enter the heart temple of each star to manipulate rays and provoke events in the physical world.
Beloved Disciple,
We now enter in full into our esoteric teachings of the constellation of Aries. This zodiacal sign governs the head, is the house of the warrior Mars, iron is its metal, ruby its stone and fire is its nature.
Due to this, the natives of Aries are of war-like nature, become strongly angered and since, they possess a great Martian energy, they feel capable of embarking on great undertakings and they take them to a good end.
In general, they are not happy in love, since the easy instability they possess leads them into displeasures and marital separations.
During this sign, the disciple will have to charge his head with light to awaken his pituitary and pineal glands. The power of clairvoyance resides in these two small glands.
Both glands are joined by an extremely fine duct, which has already disappeared in corpses. When both glands intermingle their luminous auras, man becomes clairvoyant and then perceives all the marvels of the subtle world. He will then know all the secrets, thoughts of men and women and will be able to see and talk to the sidereal Gods.
Who will be able to hide his secret away from him? An enlightened clairvoyant is full of light and fire.
The exercises of this sign are the following:

EXERCISE

The disciple should sit on a comfortable chair and remain thoughtless for five minutes.
He should then pray to his Inner Self as follows:
“Father, you who are my true being, I beg that you transport yourself to the main star of the constellation of Aries, to bring the principal genie of that constellation to this humble house, so that he may heal my brain and awaken all the occult powers of my head”.
Then, with interlaced hands above his heart, the disciple will make a small bow of the head saluting the guardian at the right column, inhaling deeply, as in a sigh and immediately pronounces the password: JACHIN. Immediately, he will make an identical salute to the guardian on the left and pronounce the password: BOAZ. He will once again pray to his Inner Self like this: “Father, take the seven sacred steps within, towards the interior of the temple and kneel down at the feet of the principal genie of Aries, begging him to come and awaken the powers of my brain and to flood my head with light”. Then the disciple pronounces the mantra: AOM. This mantra is pronounced properly opening the mouth with the vowel “A”, rounding it off with the vowel “O”, and closing it with the letter “M”, like this:AAAAAAAAOOOOOOOOOMMMMMMMM.
This mantra is pronounced four times with the intention that the light flood our entire brain, Next, the disciple will stand up; extend his right hand forward and move his head seven times forward, seven times backwards, seven rotations to the right and seven times to the left, with the intention that light flood and act within all the glands of the brain.
The pineal gland is influenced by Mars and the pituitary by Venus. The pituitary produces sleepiness and the pineal gland incites us to fight; and in this manner, while
Venus wants to sleep, Mars wants to continue fighting.
During this sign, the disciple should vocalize daily for one hour, the vowel I”, like this:
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII…..
This vowel will cause your pineal gland to vibrate and finally you will become clairvoyant. Developed, the pineal gland converts us into super-men, and atrophied, it converts us into idiots. It is found developed in the chaste and atrophied in fornicators.
Therefore, good disciple, if you want to convert thyself into an angel, thou are totally prohibited from all coitus.
The pineal gland is the window of Brahma: a fountain of accumulation for the magician and the disciple should practice before going to bed nightly, this other exercise:
Sit on a comfortable chair, during half an hour. Close your eyes. Remove all thought from your mind. Then, imagine that the fire from the constellation of Aries descends from heaven and penetrates in the igneous columns through your pineal gland.
This gland is situated in the superior portion of the brain and the power to see the ultra of all things resides in it.
If the disciple carries out the exercises of Aries with tenacity and constancy, he will become an enlightened clairvoyant. During these exercises, the disciple will be assisted by the hierarchies of Aries and they will awaken his powers and heal his brain with special treatments. The disciple will also be able to use the power of those hierarchies to heal others.
Aries is the house of Mars and Mars is the planet of war. The red hierarchies of Mars, gave man the astral body; Samael is the supreme chief of the astral plane; he and his warriors. Meditating daily on the tattwa Tejas, we activate the powers of the astral body.
The tattwa Tejas or igneous ether is the cause causorum of all flame. The astral plane is the ardent world.

---

TAURUS

From the 20 of April to the 20 of May
Rules: The Neck, Nape and Ears
Metal: Copper
Stone: Emerald and Agate
Perfume: Aromatic Herb
Plant: Birch
Flower: Thorned
Planet: Venus
Color: Green
Element: Earth
Key Word: Love
Day: Friday
Ruler: Uriel

In the past lecture I promised I would give thee the clues of these two golden rules:
The Lion of the Law is combated with the Scales; When an Inferior Law is transcended by a Superior Law, the Superior Law washes away the Inferior Law.
The solution to these two golden rules is found in a third which says:
“Do good deeds to pay your debts”.
Very well, now imagine a scale: On one pan lie your good deeds and, on the other, your bad deeds and your corresponding Karma.
If the Karmic pan is inclined against you, then you will be able to fight it by placing more weight on the pan of good deeds and then thou shall incline the scale in thy favor and thus kill Karma.
A temple of the Lords of Karma exists in the subtle world and the jackal is great chief of these judges of destiny. This great Being is supreme Judge of the Cosmic Tribunal; he has the appearance of a great man with the head of a jackal.
When we have accumulated capital in the Cosmic Bank, we pay our debts and avoid pain. Those who live daily making “new deposits” to the Cosmic Bank will always have something with which to pay their old debts. In this matter of paying debts, one should always keep in mind the law of “Analogies” and of “Correspondences”. The Karmic analogies are fought with Dharmic analogies.
Karma and Dharma: these two oriental terms mean punishment and reward. In a more philosophical form we would say: bad action and bad consequence, and modifying the causes, one modifies the effects, since the effects are nothing else but causes reproduced in another form. Are you going to be made a prisoner? Give freedom to another ! Is your son going to die? Heal your fellowman ! Are you in misery? Give all that you have left to the hungry and sacrifice all your efforts in favor of others. Beg, in prayer, to the Lords of
Karma and you will be heard.
Do not forget, beloved disciple, that justice is the supreme mercy and impiety of the law.
So, I have already taught you the two golden rules and I have explained to you how to kill Karma. In the following lessons I will be teaching you how to manage the sidereal rays.
He who has, receives and the more he gives, the more he receives: that is the law.
But those who do works of evil shall be victims of their own deeds !
Why do people suffer? Why do they blaspheme against God if human suffering is not
God’s fault? We ourselves are the creators of our own destiny. Sanctify thyself, beloved disciple, Sanctify thyself!
There are three eternal things in life: the LAW, NIRVANA AND SPACE.
Now, let us begin explaining the exercises of the constellation of Taurus. The cortege of stars that form the constellation of Taurus is the house of Venus, the ineffable star of love, the break of dawn and consequently, Taurus is of Venusian nature. Taurines are of amorous and Venusian nature due to this. They love much in love and always pass through great deceptions
Taurines are tame and industrious like the bull, that symbolizes that group of stars, but, at times, they are also “aggressive” like the bull, they are tenacious and gluttons, romantic and sensual. They love music, dance and beauty. They have an ability for all types of manual arts.
Taurus rules the larynx and the neck. The larynx is also a sexual uterus where the verb is born. The creative larynx will be the sexual organ of the future divine humanity.
The sexual fire of the kundalini becomes a creator in the word. In our works titled “The
Perfect Matrimony”, “The Revolution of Bel”, and “Treatise of Occult Medicine and
Practical Magic”, we already have extensively spoken about the Kundalini and we taught the Great Arcanum or supreme secret for the awakening of the asleep princess of the
Kundalini
The verb is intimately related with the four elements of Nature and due to this, the initiates of the ancient temples of mystery were prohibited from talking about the old catastrophes of ancient Arcadia in fear that they would bring them back into existence.
The ancient hierophants knew too well that the verb is related to the four elements of
Nature, and that talking about a catastrophe is as much as evoking it again. For this reason, the “initiates” never spoke publicly about the archaic cataclysms.
A hard word follows us and later falls upon him who pronounced it, like a ray of vengeance.
One does not only fornicate with the sexual act: there is another kind of fornication with the verb.
The improper use of words is also fornication: Fornication with the verb creates astral larvae and misfortunes. It hurts to see how people abuse the verb and fill the world with pain. Slander is the worst of all blasphemies.
One should achieve in oneself the perfection of the verb and language. One should comprehend the responsibility of the verb. One should learn to use the sexual organ of the verb.
Do you not feel the need to learn how to use the verb? Listen to me, beloved disciple, we, the members of the sacred College of Initiates, can create anything with thought and materialize it with the verb.
Be careful in mentioning names and surnames, because that is slander.
If you are a philosopher, fight “theories”, but never talk about the private lives of its leaders. When one talks about a leader, talk about his doctrine, but never mention his private life. Each one, is each one and no one should care about the private life of others.
To talk when one should keep silence is as bad as keeping silence when one should talk.
There are times when talking is a crime and there are times when silence is another crime. There are criminal silences and also infamous words. One should talk when he should and be silent when he should be silent.
One should achieve in oneself the perfection of the verb. One should achieve in oneself, the wisdom of the verb.
People have lost notion of sincerity. Nowadays, human words do not carry the substance of sincerity and people suffer due to the lack of sincerity. Today, human words are full of falsehood and hypocrisy.
Do you know what false words are?
Fraudulent words create monsters.
Have you ever seen the birth of a monstrous child? That is the Karma of the false word pronounced in previous lifetimes. We admire very much the substance of sincerity. A liar could never arrive at our white island.
In this course, we have arrived at the constellation of Taurus. This sign governs the neck and a new struggle between Venus and Mars repeats itself here.
Venus governs the thyroid gland and Mars governs the parathyroids. It is an eternal struggle between Venus and Mars. While some glands produce saliva, others dry it This struggle takes place in all of our organism.
Venus is related to Love and Mars to war. The Astrologer should learn how to use the sparkle of the stars.
Do you know of any home where bitterness reigns? Do you want to serve disinterestedly?
Do you know of a poor woman abandoned in misery by a suitor? Do you want to help her? Listen to me well, beloved disciple, for I will teach you how to use the sparkle of
Venus:
Sit in a comfortable chair.
Close your eyes.
Set aside all earthly thought from your mind and focus your thought on your Internal
Master, praying like this:

PRAYER

“Dear Father, you who art my true Being, I beg you with all my heart and with all my soul, that you penetrate in the “heart temple” of the star of Venus so that you may kneel at the feet of “Uriel” and ask of him the following favor: (One asks for the favor one desires)”. Then, the disciple mentally salutes the guardian at the right column, will take a deep breath and pronounce the password “Jachin”. Next, he will do the same with the guardian at the left column and pronounces the password: “Boaz”, in other words, first the deep breath, then he will pray to his Internal Master telling him: “Lord, take the seven steps into the temple to make the petition. My Father, my Lord, my God”. Once the petition has been made, one asks “Uriel” with one’s whole heart for a choir of Angels to accomplish the work. (Singing, they create).
If the Angel of Venus grants our petition, the choir of Angels, who are his sons and live with him in the temple of the nucleus of the star of Venus, will begin to sing in “sacred language” to do the work we have asked. That is how the army of the word creates by means of the verb.
If any profane observer was to observe the heavens in those instants, he would see the planet Venus shining and glowing in an intensified and rare manner. The observer would simply be amazed on contemplating the original sparkle of Venus in those instants. The indigo-colored hierarchies of the star of Venus gave us the Causal Body or Body of Will.
They grant what we ask for, when Karma allows it. However, if our petition is not granted, then Uriel will show the disciple “the clock of destiny” and, in this case, we have no other option but to bow down our head before the verdict of the Law. In the actual world, there is a great number of schools that try to accomplish these same “miracles” by mental force, without taking into account at all, the approval of the Lords of Destiny.
That is simply, pure and legitimate black magic. The christ-mind works well with the law. Black mental waves do not arrive where they are sent because a multitude of aerial
“elementals”, that trap and intercept their path, exist in the subtle world. Innumerable forces, which divert or disintegrate destructive mental waves, also exist in space.
Therefore, evil waves can only cause harm when the victim does not know how to love nor forgive.
Mental energy is absolutely deficient when it does not work with the energy of the Inner
Self. The miracle worker utilizes mental energy, but uniting it with the Inner Self. That is the wise mind. The miracle worker works only with the divine powers of his “Inner
Angel” and his christ-mind. The saintly masters of the white brotherhood cooperate with the magician and his christ-mind. The sidereal genii perform their miracles with the ray of justice when the magician officiates on the altar of the “Lion of the Law”.
Let us now enter the exercises of Taurus.
During this month, the following exercise is done:

EXERCISE

The disciple should sit on a comfortable chair. Close your eyes, remove all thought from your mind, make yourself a little drowsy and then focus your mind inwards, towards the
Inner Self, praying like this:
PRAYER
“My Father, now transport yourself to the principal star of Taurus, enter through the doors of the heart-temple making the salutes which you already know and beg the sidereal genie and his angels of that star to condescend and come to me, so that they may
“prepare” me and cure my larynx.”
Then, already sleepy, the disciple should imagine seeing light accumulated in his head now descending to his throat, while he pronounces the word: A.O.M. With the vowel “A” he imagines the light descending from his head to his throat; with the vowel “O”, he will imagine the light flooding his throat; and with the vowel “M”, the disciple will exhale the breath as if expiring the refuse that resides in his throat. This mantram is pronounced four times.
I will warn my disciple that the salutes as I have described them when I spoke of Venus, along with the passwords “Jachin” and “Boaz”, apply to all the stars in the sky.
Therefore, the genii of the constellation of Taurus will personally come to awaken the powers of the larynx and if the disciple has any laryngeal illness, he can ask of these genii of Taurus to be cured and they will cure him. The disciple will also be able to take advantage of these powers to heal others.
The disciple should daily vocalize the vowel “E”, like this: EEEEEEEEE…, for one hour.
The vibratory sound of this vowel will awaken the power of the occult ear in him.
The vowel “E” causes the Thyroid gland, which is the center of the magical ear, to vibrate.
The vowel “E” also develops clairvoyance of the mental body in us.
The vowel “E” makes the mental body vibrate and gives us conceptual synthetism and the power to penetrate the Intimate sense of words.

---

GEMINI

From the 21 of May to the 21 of June.
Rules: Arms, Shoulders, Lungs and Bronchial System
Metal: Mercury
Stone: Golden Beryl
Perfume: Mastic
Plant: Honeysuckle
Flower: Chrysanthemum
Planet: Mercury
Color: Orange and brilliant Yellow
Element: Air
Keyword: Reason
Day: Wednesday
Ruler: Raphael

You have already practiced the exercises of Taurus; now, we enter the brilliant constellation of Gemini.
This sign governs the arms, lungs and legs and is essentially of Mercurian nature.
Gemini is the house of Mercury. The metal of this sign is Mercury.
The stone is the golden Beryl and the color, yellow.
The lords of Mercury are already teaching mankind how to travel in the astral body. The disciple is inevitably concerned with learning how to travel in the astral body. The authentic mystery schools are found in the astral plane, that is why it is necessary for the disciple to learn how to “leave” in the astral body. It is necessary for the student to learn how to enter those sanctuaries of inner instruction to receive direct instruction from the
Masters of the Great White Lodge.
The time has arrived when students have to learn how to enter those sanctuaries of the astral at will to receive direct teachings from the great instructors. The hour to abandon theories and to go directly to what is practical has arrived.
The lords of Mercury help all those who ask for help.
In the future era, man will no longer be locked up in the body as in a prison cell. The human body will become a comfortable and luxurious temple. Man will learn to enter and leave it anytime he wants to.
Mercury is actually coming out of a cosmic night, but as time passes by, the cosmic effects of the sparkle of Mercury will be felt more intensely each time.
It is also indispensable that the disciple learns to “enter” through the doors of those
“sidereal” temples in the astral body. The main exercises of Gemini have as objective, to learn the use and maneuver of the astral body. In this sign, we also teach our disciples the secret art of the “Jinn” states, that will allow them to “carry” their physical bodies to the most secluded and remote places of the earth, in a few instants. We will give various clues in a numerical form:

ASTRAL PRACTICE: RUSTI 

The disciple should lie on his bed in a horizontal position. Relax the body so that no muscle applies pressure on the astral body. Become drowsy pronouncing the mantram
“Rusti” like this: Ruuuuuuussssstiiiiiii.
This mantram is pronounced mentally. In those instants, the student should become a
“spy of his own sleep”
When the student already finds himself in that state of drowsiness or somnolence that precedes sleep, he should get out of bed and leave the room. How? In what manner?
Almost all students suppose that it is an exercise of magnetism or auto-suggestion, etc., but they are lamentably mistakened because here we are not dealing with auto suggestion or hypnotisms. Simply get out of bed for Nature will do the rest. She will know how to separate the astral body from the physical body. The disciple merely needs to stand up and leave his room for Nature will do the rest.
Already out of his room, the student will take a little hop with the intention of floating in space and if he floats, he will then be able to transport himself to the Gnostic Church in a few seconds. But if he does not float, the disciple should once again get into bed and repeat the experiment. Some succeed immediately, others take months and even years to learn. But the “tenacious” succeeds in the end.

ASTRAL PRACTICE: KEYNOTE

In an almost imperceptible manner, a keynote always resounds within the brain of every living being. That keynote is that of the ray to which each person belongs and seems to come from the cells of the cerebellum. Some hear the sound of small flutes of the Egyptian ray; others will hear the “gong” of the Oriental ray, others the roaring of the sea, of the lunar ray, etc.
If the disciple silences all his thoughts in the calm of the night, he will hear his keynote; then he can cause that note to vibrate loudly, with will and when the note is already so loud that it invades and semi-paralyzes the entire physical body, the disciple should get out of bed and betake himself to the Gnostic Church for the Masters of the White
Brotherhood will receive him there with incomparable happiness.

ASTRAL PRACTICE: DREAM CONTINUATION

If you find yourself dreaming that you are at a certain place and you awaken, then do not move, become sleepy once again, with your imagination set on the aforementioned place, feeling yourself there again as if trying to continue the dream just as it was unfolding, while you cling to that place of the dream with thy Will. Imagination and Will united in vibrant harmony is the key to this clue.

ASTRAL PRACTICE: IMAGINATION

At the time of falling asleep, concentrate thy imagination and thy Will intensely, united in vibrant harmony, on a certain place or location. Concentration should be perfect and then begin walking with faith in the “imagined” place. You should not imagine that you are imagining, because the experiment will then fail. One should really feel oneself at the imagined place and totally forget the bedroom.
This experiment should be done during the state of transition between vigil and sleep and once at that place, kneel and ask thy own internal God to take you to the Holy Gnostic
Church, which is the great Cathedral of the Soul and the temple in which the Solar Logos, our Lord, the Christ, officiates.

ASTRAL PRACTICE: REALITY CHECKS

Keeping in mind that the soul wanders in all the familiar places or locations during ordinary sleep and that in a state of drowsiness it is occupied in the same trades and toils of the day, you should become accustomed to asking yourselves during the entire day:
Where am I? Am I within the body or out of it? Then you will take a little hop with the intention of floating. It is logical that if you float, it is because you are out of the body, and if you do not float, it is because you are still in flesh and bones and continue your path. But, if you manage to float, ask your Inner-Self to take you to the Holy Gnostic
Church.
One should ask this question in the presence of something which attracts his or her attention, such as a crowd of people, a funeral procession, a strange object, etc. Many have awakened their consciousness with this formidable clue, because on asking this question, they floated in the air and realized that they were out of the body and that the body had been left asleep in bed. “It is because the soul wanders when the body sleeps.”
But the soul can come out of its unconscious drowsiness with this clue. During the day, you should become accustomed to this exercise so that it be recorded in the subconscious and act, during sleep.

ASTRAL PRACTICE: AUTO-SUGGESTION

Before falling asleep in your bed, you will do the following exercise of auto suggestion:
“I am going to sleep. Wherever I appear now is because I am in the astral body. I will recognize myself, I will recognize myself I will recognize myself and will direct myself to the Gnostic Church.” You can do this auto-suggestion for half an hour and then peacefully fall asleep.
In the astral, you will mathematically recognize yourself and at the time of awakening, do not move. Do a retrospective exercise to remember where you have been.

ASTRAL PRACTICE: OMNIS BAUM IGNEOS

Put yourself to sleep pronouncing the mantram: OMNIS BAUM IGNEOS; like this:Ommmmmnissssssbaaaaauuuuuuuummmmmmiiiiiignnneeeeeoooooooooooosssssss, syllabicating the mantram, lengthening the sound of each vowel and praying to thy Inner-
Self to take thee out of the body. Then softly get out of your bed and floating in space, go to the Gnostic Church.

These are the seven clues to travel in the astral body.
When the theurgist “leaves” the physical body, he travels to the sidereal temples in the following manner:
The astral body begins to walk in the form of concentric circles, with the intention of reaching the heart-temple of a specific star.
The panorama of things change in a few instants, the theurgist is in the presence of the sidereal temple and the guardians of the columns “J” and “B”. The theurgist will make the strictly required salutes as we have taught in the previous pages, take the seven steps inside the heart-temple of the star and will then kneel at the feet of the Sidereal Genie. If the Genie says: “granted”, the disciple asks for “choir”; the Genie will make a sign and the army of the verb will begin to sing in sacred language to carry out the “work that we have asked for”. The army of the verb creates with the word. In these sublime moments we go into ecstasy. Entire Nature kneels before the Sidereal Gods and their ineffable canto elevates us to the plethora of light.
The most divine and moving melodies saturate the infinite spaces and the waters of the rivers murmur in silence, “God is like this”. It is impossible to describe those instants of happiness in which the soul is loose.
There, the past and the future harmonize into an eternal now and we then feel the voice of the blessed who invites us to the “eternal wedding” from the most profound bottom of our Being.
When the disciple is already skilled in Astrotheurgy, the Sidereal Gods then accept him as a laybrother and give him a gray-colored robe and a rod. It is the robe of the Esoteric
Astrologer. It is the ineffable robe of the theurgist. It is the robe of the authentic alchemist. As he progresses in his wisdom, he receives different degrees.
There, the disciple will learn how to combine the most diverse alchemical substances to produce different events in the different cosmic planes.
One is overwhelmed on contemplating those Child’ Genii of the stars, working in the alchemical laboratories of their temples to provoke the most diverse events of the physical plane.
Samael, the worker of iron, working in the forges of Mars.
Anael, the genie of love and art, within his laboratory of love, appears like a boy of twelve years, blonde haired and rosy cheeks, on the star of Venus.
Michael, indescribable and ineffable, governing creation from the heart of the Sun.
Which of you has the courage to descend in that abyss, in the bottom of which life of the solar system throbs?.
Raphael, the genie of Mercury; he looks like an old man with a long beard and his face, the color of fire. He has the trident of the transforming atoms in his hand and there, within his temple of Mercury, he resembles a terrible Monarch causing the cosmic mind to tremble. Who would dare disobey his sacred orders?
Who is the other one of white robe and white cape, before whom the columns of angels and demons tremble?
See him in the temple of Jupiter; giving the sceptre to kings and directing the economy of men; he is “Zachariel”, the genie of Jupiter, before whom tyrants tremble.
In the center of the pale Moon is the temple of Gabriel, the fisherman; he directs the life of the oceans and the tears of women.
Do you want to learn how to make thyself invisible? Call him night after night so that he may “prepare” thy body; make Gabriel a daily devotion.
A well “prepared” physical body is the most extraordinary instrument for the exercise of practical magic. A well prepared body can become invisible. Neither a bullet nor a dagger enters a well prepared body.
What shall we now say about the old man of heaven, the Lord of the Law, the old Orifiel?
Oh Saturn! You are the sword of justice which reaches us from heaven. In your hands is the life and estate of all humans. Listen to me well, disciple, always choose the planet you are going to work with.

Mars is warlike.
Venus, amorous.
Mercury, wise.
Saturn, melancholic and “concrete”.
The Moon, motherly.
The Sun, leader.
Jupiter, lord of high personages.

Never enter any of these dwellings without first knocking at the door.
Black magicians assault the mansions of heaven. The white magicians first knock at the door. The door of each star is the heart temple. Intruding visitors enter the stars like thieves in someone else’s house.
The sons of light enter through the door of the heart temple.
The sons of light first ask permission of the lord of the house to visit his abode.
The heart-temple of a star is the door of entrance and exit of the star.
Our Earth also has a heart-temple; that temple is the abode of the genie of the Earth.
Visitors from other stars enter and leave through it.
Do you know who the genie of the Earth is? He is our Lord, the Christ.
Our Earth is a small bright star of blue color, belonging to the milky way.
“In my Father’s house there are many mansions”.
Each star of heaven is an abode and the door of each celestial abode is the heart- temple.
When “out” of the body you invoke an inhabitant of another planet, you will see him come out from within the earth and on saying good-bye to you, you wilt see him sink into the depths of the earth. He has entered and left through the door of the interior of the earth.
You can also invoke your physical body from afar: you will kneel on the earth and pray to your Inner-Self like this:
“Father, bring my body”. Then, thy Inner-Self wilt bring thee thy physical body. The atoms of your physical body will tell you: “I am your physical body, don’t you know me?” You will be astonished when you see thine own physical body in sleeping clothes, face to face, the same as you left it in bed! Then command thy physical body thus:
“Jump over my head and penetrate through my pineal gland”. The Physical body will obey you and you will be with your physical body in any remote place of the earth. If someone was to enter your room in those instants, he or she would not find you. He or she would only find your empty bed.
It is indispensable to take your physical body to the Gnostic Church every Friday and
Sunday, at dawn to receive the Gnostic Holy Unction in flesh and bone. You can also take the physical body from the very bed without the need of invoking it from afar. Fall asleep vocalizing the following mantrams:
“Miña Pica Frasco”.
Then slowly get out of thy bed, conserving your sleep. Execute a little hop and if you see thyself chubby and floating, then leave your house and betake thyself towards the Gnostic
Church.
The forces of the subconscious become activated during sleep and these powerful energies are precisely the ones which allow us to “place our physical body within the astral plane”. This is what is called the “jinn” state.
The sublime guru Huiracocha, Master Arnold Krumm Helter, talks to us about the ‘jinn” states in his Rosicrucian Novel. Wise Krumm Helter describes to us a commander
Montenero receiving a note from a “hugier” or servant. Commander Montenero sighed and said “at last”. Then he left the castle of Chapultepec and going around and around on the path of the mountain of Chapultepec, he whistled many times. A native then led commander Montenero to the temple of Chapultepec.
Is this a phenomenon of the fourth dimension?” asked the commander. “Yes, my commander, the uninitiated does not become aware of these things”, answered the native.
Thus, with his body in the jinn state, Montenero received his initiation.
All the works of the renowned Krumm Helter (Huiracocha) are a well of initiatic wisdom that very few have comprehended. Now, remaining with us is his son Parsival Krumm
Helter, who sincerely rejoiced with us when he studied our works titled: “The Perfect
Matrimony” and “The Revolution of Bel”. Parsival faithfully follows the wise path of his father.
The most profound initiatic wisdom of the centuries is enclosed in the zodiacal course of
Huiracocha.
Gemini is an Air sign and is the house of Mercury.
The lords of Mercury gave man the soul-spirit or Buddhic body. The color of the hierarchies of Mercury is yellow or golden-yellow.
Gemini, or the sign of the twins, reminds us of the twin souls.
The first woman that man knew in Eden is his twin soul.
The twin souls keep meeting each other, life after life. Together they came out of Eden and together they should return to Eden. When Karma separates them, they suffer the inexpressible. True happiness in marriage can only be possible between two twin-souls.
When the marriage does not take place with the twin soul, it is a karmic marriage and one suffers the inexpressible.
The natives of Gemini are of a strong will; possess great courage, are versatile and like to travel. Their lives are a mixture of successes and failures. At times they live in comfort and at other times must endure much misery. They are very intelligent and become irritated very easily. The defect of the natives of Gemini is that they try to solve all things with their heads. They always want to silence the wise voice of the heart and then create problems and difficulties of all types.
The exercises of Gemini are the following:

EXERCISE:

The disciple should lie horizontally on his bed, relax his body and take five breaths of air with the intention that light now penetrates his lungs and bronchi. He will open his arms and legs with each inhalation and will close them with each exhalation. Then, seated on a comfortable chair, he will ask his Inner-Self to betake himself to the constellation of
Gemini to bring the sidereal Gods of those temples, so that they will prepare his organism for practical magic.

---

CANCER

From the 22 of June to the 22 of July.
Rules: the Stomach
Metal: Silver
Stone: Pearl
Perfume: Camphor
Plant: Eucalyptus, Cherry tree and the Violet
Flower: White Rose
Planet: the Moon
Color: Silver
Element: Water
Key Word: Fecundation
Day: Monday
Ruler: Gabriel
Beloved disciple:

You have already studied and practiced the lesson of Gemini. Today we enter the constellation of Cancer.
Throughout thy studies, thou has realized that we, the Gnostics, are essentially practical.
We frankly do not like to spend our lives theorizing; we get down to brass tacks, we are tired of so much theory. We are essentially “realistic”. We want deeds, not theories nor morbid intelligentias. We like effective realities. We head towards great realizations.
All the spiritualist schools talk to you about supra-sensible worlds, but we go beyond that because we are more practical. We teach our disciples how to enter those worlds in the astral body and even with the very body of flesh and bone, in a totally conscious and positive manner.
This entering of the physical body into the ultra-sensible worlds appears to be strange to the theorists because they know nothing else but how to theorize; but to the comprehensive, this does not seem strange. It is, of course, as old as the world. In not too remote times, the physical body moved and developed within the astral world, so what?
After this short preamble, let us enter in full into our present lesson of Cancer.
Cancer is the house of the Moon. Its metal is silver, its stone, the pearl, and white, its color.
The Moon influences the thymus gland and regulates the growth of the human being.
The Moon influences all the milky juices of all living things.
The Moon adjusts the procreation of all that is alive.
The Moon governs the sap in vegetables and the rising and ebbing tides of the seas.
The Moon has power over salt and salt is the base of all that is alive. Existing within our organism are twelve salts of the twelve zodiacal signs.
Cancer is the sign of the sacred scarab.
Cancer is the sign of reproduction. Fetal conception is verified with the rays of the sign of
Cancer and because of it, is the sign of the sacred scarab.
In Egypt, the sacred scarab symbolizes the soul. The reincarnating souls pass through the sphere of Cancer before taking a body.
Cancer produces the sickness that carries its name.
Cancer is the Karma of Fornicators.
The Moon is the symbol of a secret planet that lies behind it.
The violet hierarchies of the heart-temple of the Moon gave man his vital body.
The Moon is inhabited on the side that is not seen.
The helenites are the most vulgar and laggard beings of our earth: there was a need to confine them there. Almost all the inhabitants of that city are women. These beings are neither good nor bad, but simply “laggards”. As they evolve, they are given a body here on earth once again and at last, they will all have a body again. Another small moon called Lillith by astronomers also exists. Lillith is the black moon. The souls that have already totally separated themselves from their superior ego formed by Atman-BuddhiManas, go there.
Those souls are of an indescribable perversity and there, have to go through the second death to which the Apocalypse refers and of which the Christ spoke to us about.
In her sixth volume of “The Secret Doctrine”, H.P.B. refers to the avitchi and the second death.
The Bhagavad Gita talks to us about the abyss also, but it was enough for us to talk about this topic, for the spiritualists of Columbia to laugh at us.
I have never said that my physical person is occupied in confining the perverse souls in the abyss. This would be out of tone, since I am a man like any other: God is the only one who has those powers. Marvels of that nature are only done by “Atman”, the great
Universal Spirit of life; “Alaya”, the super soul of Emerson, the great soul of the world.
These marvels have only been done by my internal God, my “Purusa”, my “Superior
Being”, my Inner-Self, my Internal Master, my Monad, my Internal Angel, before whom
I have to kneel, because he is Atman, the Ineffable.
This can also be done by the Internal God of any of thee, because “Atman” is the
Omnipotent and the Ineffable.
Masters are many, but the “Soul-Master” is one: The Soul of the World, the divine
“Alaya” that seems to be many. Samael Aun Weor is the authentic name of a flame of the great blaze, before whom I must prostrate myself.
Samael Aun Weor means “Will of God” and the Will of God is what has written this work. Therefore, when we talk of Avitchi, we do not say anything new, almost all the better spiritualists comment, describe, mention it. So what?
Spiritualists grieve deeply that “Atman” the great universal spirit of life is acting through one of his flames to accomplish a cosmic mission. Yes, so and so are amazed, because ignorance in its bold simplicity is a celestine beggar, with whom one cannot have immaculate contact! Where is the wisdom of all those fools who criticize me? What became of it?
The Avitchi is a very old subject: even the very Doctor E. Adoun (Mago Jefa) talks to us about the second death in “La Zarza de Oreb”. So what?
In ancient times, the totally separated personalities from the divine triad (Atman BuddhiManas) remained in the Avitchi of our earth. (See the sixth volume of “The Secret
Doctrine” of H.P.B.)
Today, the times have changed: we are beginning the New Aquarian Age and we have to isolate from this terrestrial globe those personalities that are already separated from their divine triads to cleanse the atmosphere of all evil. That is all, If this is reason for mockery on the part of lecture-hall spiritualists and occasional readers, whose fault is it?
When the bridge called “Antakarana”, which communicates the divine triad with his
“inferior I” is broken, then the inferior I is left separated and is sunk in the abyss of destructive forces, where it disintegrates little by little. This is the second death of which the Apocalypse talks to us about; that is, the state of consciousness called “Avitchi”.
In these cases, the divine triad (Atman-Buddhi-Manas) is clothed with a new mental and astral body to continue its evolution, and the discarded personality is submerged in the state of “Avitchi”, into the most inexpressible suffering.
All the moons of the solar system are governed by Jehova, but our terrestrial satellite is directly governed by the “Angel Gabriel”.
The magician should pay close attention to the lunar influences because all the sidereal energies crystallize in our terrestrial globe through the lunar forces.
All that is began during the crescent moon progresses quickly.
All that is done in the waning moon fails.
The new Moon is very weak and the full Moon is very strong and serves to carry out all works of practical magic successfully.
The last day of the Moon means: abortions and failures
Always do your business in crescent moon so that you may succeed. Hitler launched himself on Russia in the waning moon and failed.
When a star shines within a nimbus of the moon, it is a sign that a General is surrounded by enemies.
The Moon produces the rising and ebbing of the sea.
The Moon produces high and low tides.
The Moon attracts and repels the terrestrial magnetism.
The Magician should “prepare” his body for the exercise of practical magic. The magician’s body is different from others because it is prepared.
EXERCISE
Sit on a comfortable chair; close thy eyes; remove all thought from thy mind; focus the mind on thy Inner-Self and pray like this:
“Father: you who art my true Being, I beg you Lord to enter the heart-temple of the Moon to bring me the Angel Gabriel. Do the Salutes, my Lord...Amen”. Then, direct thyself to the four cardinal points and perform the following invocation of the Angel Gabriel, blessing the north, south, east and west:

INVOCATION

“Thirteen thousand rays has the Sun, thirteen thousand rays has the Moon, thirteen thousand times may the enemies I have, repent!”

The disciple will pray to the Angel Gabriel to prepare his body to become invisible, or to transform his face, stop a bullet or knife in a moment of danger, or to materialize any superior entity, lamblichus, the great theurgist, made the sidereal Gods visible in the physical world because he had his body well prepared.
The Angel Gabriel will occultly treat the spleen and certain centers of the spinal column in the disciple. When the latter can already make visible and tangible the Angel Gabriel in the physical plane, it is because his body is “prepared”. Then, in a moment of danger he will do the invocation of the Angel Gabriel and if the disciple wants to become invisible, the Angel Gabriel will erase him from the sight of the enemies, or will transform his face if the disciple so desires. The invocation will always be done blessing the four cardinal points.
These exercises, to prepare the body, are practiced our entire lifetime.
When the theurgist has his body well prepared, he can make the sidereal Gods visible in the physical plane. This requires patience and perseverance, because nothing is obtained like a gift. Everything costs struggle and sacrifice.
The forces that descend from heaven, on arriving at our “thymus gland”, meet the forces that ascend through our organism from the earth, and there, in the “thymus gland”, the two triangles of the superior and inferior forces interlace to form the seal of Solomon.

EXERCISE

Seated, imagine this marvelous encounter of the cosmic forces forming the seal of
Solomon at the thymus gland and sunk in profound inner meditation, pray to thy InnerSelf to enter the sidereal temple of the principal star of Cancer, to bring thee the principal hierarchies of that constellation, so that they may awaken thy inner powers and give that gland a treatment. Vocalize the letter “A” one hour daily.

The natives of Cancer are peaceful, but too wrathful at times. They have an aptitude for manual arts, are very sensible and their character changes with the lunar phases. Things go well for them on long journeys. They are very romantic, amorous and very tenacious.

---

LEO

From the 23 of July to the 22 of August.
Rules: Heart and Spinal Column
Metal: Gold
Stone: Diamond
Perfume: Incense
Plant: Sunflower
Flower: Poppy
Planet: The Sun
Color: Golden
Element: Fire
Day: Sunday
Key Word: Life
Ruler: Michael

Today we enter the constellation of Leo.
Leo is the heart of the zodiac and the throne of the Sun.
Leo is the dwelling of the sons of the flame, whom the Bible calls “thrones”.
Leo is the house of the Kumaras.
Leo is the house of the Sun and governs our heart.
Just as the Sun is the heart of the solar system, so is the human heart the sun of our organism also.
The forces that descend and those that rise from the earth, in the form of a triangle, meet at the heart, mingle and become redeemed, forming the seal of Solomon. The heart is the sacred chamber of the blessed mother Goddess of the world. The ineffable princess of the
Kundalini, “Hadit”, the winged serpent of the desert, reaches as far as there.
The cross of initiation is given to us in the heart-temple.
The kundalini is the laboratory where the heart works.
The fires of the heart serve as control to the fires of the spine. The Kundalini rises according to the merits of the heart. The Kundalini evolves and progresses within the aura of the Solar Logos.
The heart is the most sensitive organ of our organism. The most remote seismic movements of the world are registered within the fine membranes of the heart.
The heart is the sacred temple of the Inner Master. The Inner Master speaks to us in the form of hunches. If man obeyed those hunches, he would live without problems.
Man rebels against the voice of the Inner Master and creates problems for himself. There are two men in us that live in eternal struggle: one against the other.
There is a celestial man and an animal man in us. The animal man wants to solve things on his own and act as he likes best.
The celestial man talks in the form of hunches; his voice is the voice of silence and his actions are always upright; and create happiness.
The animal man is the mind that resides in the head with its seven portals... The celestial man is the Inner Master.
The Master commands and the mind does not obey him; it wants to solve everything on its own and act as it likes best, without at all taking the orders of the Internal Master into consideration. As a consequence of this, pain and bitterness, appear which are the result of erred action and useless efforts.
Happy are those who act with the voice of silence, they will never lack bread, shelter and refuge. They shall live without problems and will have bliss.
Coachman, dominate the untamed colt of the mind properly, so that it will not cast your cart to the abyss.
The Inner Master is the divine witness, seated on the throne of the heart-temple.
The inner essence of the Master is absolute happiness and limitless omniscience.
The Inner Master is “simple’. Everything else is compound.
Eternal Nature keeps changing, but the Inner Master is immutable and because of this, the
Master can free himself from Nature.
Nature casts its shadows on the Master, but the Inner Master is beyond all shadow.
When the Soul fuses with the Inner Master, then it becomes free from Nature and enters the supreme happiness of absolute existence.
That state of happiness is called Nirvana.
One arrives at Nirvana through millions of births and deaths, but is also reached by means of a shorter path, the path of “initiation”.
The Initiate reaches Nirvana in one single life if he so wants it.
“Narrow is the door and narrow the path that leads to light; and very few are those who find it”.
Seven initiatic sanctuaries exist in the astral plane and if the disciple wants to progress in this path, he has to seek a Master.
“When the disciple is ready, the Master appears’.
“Be careful of false prophets”. Do not accept external Masters in the physical plane.
Learn to leave in the astral body and when you are skillful in the astral, choose an authentic Master of Greater Mysteries of the White Brotherhood and consecrate to him, the most absolute devotion and the most profound respect.
You should walk with much care in the physical world, since there are many false prophets. Do not accept external orders from anyone; thou should only obey the orders that “we” give thee in the astral plane.
There are many initiates of lesser mysteries in the physical plane, good and sincere, but they have not yet fused with their Inner Master. They are also “living dead” and consequently, have serious and very grievous errors, which can lead the student astray and even make him fall into the abyss.
When we want to make ourselves known to a student in the physical plane, we will give him “signs” and proofs in the astral plane, but “be careful”, live alert and vigilant as the guard in times of war and deceiving wonders.
“Be simple like the dove and shrewd as a serpent”.
“Be meek and humble, but when it regards the truth, be strong in thought, word and deed”.
The higher thou art, the more terrible the fall shall be.
Be careful then. from falling, because the disciple who allows himself to fall, then has to struggle much to recover what has been lost.
These two rules are very simple, but of terrible importance.
I have known many initiates in the Lesser Mysteries, who have known and accepted false prophets of the physical plane and then fell into the terrible abyss.
I teach the student how to travel in the astral body, so that he will not allow himself to be deceived. The student allows himself to be deceived because he does not know how to travel in the astral body.
Anyone who tries to ridicule our sacred temples and our sacred initiations is still “a living dead person”. Do not listen to him, he is dangerous.
There are people who think they can reach Nirvana without going through any initiation.
Such “living dead” people follow the spiral path of life and only through millions of lives and deaths, will they truly reach Nirvana. But there are other “living dead” people who want to rapidly fuse themselves with their Inner-Self and nevertheless, try to mock our sacred initiations. This kind of living dead people are the most dangerous because they have tread the path and are “mocking” the path. “These are the offenders” of Victor
Hugo. These are the defilers of the temple.
To want to rapidly become fused with the Inner-Self without having passed through the nine initiations of Lesser Mysteries, is akin to wanting to receive a doctor’s degree in medicine, without having studied all the required years at university, or like wanting to be a general, without having passed through all the military ranks.
All initiations are received in the temples of the astral plane, but the school is life itself.
During the sign of Leo, we should act on the heart, through meditation. Inner meditation consists of three phases:

1 Perfect Concentration
2 Perfect Meditation
3 Perfect Samadhi

One has to concentrate the mind on the Inner Master. One has to meditate on the majesty of the Inner Master. One has to talk with the Inner Master, until one hears his voice and converses ineffable things with HIM...
This is called Samadhi.
Concentration is one technique. On page 17, in “The Voice of the Silence”, H.P.B. says the following and I quote:
“Before the soul can hear, the image (man) has to become as deaf to roarings as to whispers, to cries and bellowing elephants as to the silvery buzzing of the golden fire fly”.
“Before the soul can comprehend and may remember, she must unto the Silent Speaker be united just as the form to which the clay is modelled, is first united with the potter’s mind”.
“For then the soul will hear, and will remember”.
“And then to the inner ear speak - The Voice of the Silence”.
So then, we should especially practice inner meditation during this sign of Leo. I advice my disciples to practice inner meditation during those instants in which they feel more predisposed to sleep. You should totally dominate the untamed horse of the mind.
You should control all possible reactions of the mind before the objects and sounds of the physical world.
The Inner Master is not the mind. The Inner Master is not emotion; the Inner Master is not the will; the Inner Master is not the conscience nor the intelligence.
The Inner Master is the divine witness. The Inner Master is the Being. The Inner Master is the Inner-Self; therefore, while sunk in deep inner meditation, say:
“NOT THIS, NOT THIS, NOT THIS. I AM HE, I AM HE, I AM HE”.
Be demanding with thy Inner Master, he should teach thee the most ineffable things. If thy concentration is intense, then thou shall penetrate in the marvels of the cosmos and will learn things which are impossible to describe with words.
Vocalize daily the vowel “O” during this sign of Leo, to awaken the heart chakra.
A secret planet from which emanates the life of all that throbs in the physical plane, exists between the Sun and Mercury.
The blue hierarchies of the Sun are the fountain of all life. The natives of Leo are energetic and generous at the same time, magnanimous, mystics and authoritarians. They have a tendency towards anger and should struggle much to dominate that defect.
Leo, being the throne of the Sun, announces fortune and high position. The occult significance of Leo is Intuition. Gold is the metal of this sign and diamond, its stone.
The natives of Leo are authoritative and want to command only. Leo brings some journeys. The natives of Leo suffer a great deal morally.

---

VIRGO

From the 23 of August to the 22 of September.
Rules: The intestines and lower Abdomen
Metal: Mercury
Stone: The Emerald
Perfume: White Sandalwood
Plant: The Elm
Flower: The Morning Glory
Planet: Mercury
Color: Yellow
Element: Earth
Key Word: Reason
Day: Wednesday
Ruler: Raphael

Today we fully enter the constellation of Virgo, house of Mercury and exile of Venus.
The ancient sages divided the zodiacal belt in ten signs only, since Virgo and Scorpio were “esoterically” considered one single sign.
Virgo, the sign of the celestial virgin and Scorpio, the sign of the sexual forces, together, are really that marvelous Eden the Bible talks to us about. This is the paradise of virgin men; this is the paradise of the perfect androgyne. This is the Eden the Bible talks about.
Eden is sex itself.
“Come to us all those who thirst and we shall give thee the eternal water of life to drink”
“Come to us all weary pilgrims of life and we shall heal thy wounds”.
Sons of the earth! Listen to thy instructors, the sons of the fire!
In this delightful garden of Virgo and Scorpio, the seven serpents of fire are awaiting to initiate thee in their great mysteries.
“Ask and it shall be given thee, knock and it shall be opened”.
Look! My Son! Here is the seal of the heart. To those who visit our “white island” we shall give thee three glasses to drink, three delicious arcanes.
One is green as the emerald. It is the sexual force of the virgin-mother, “isis”, Nature.
The other is as blue as the sky. It is the sexual force of the kingdom of the spirit.
The other is like the dew of the leaves in the night. It is the sexual force of the absolute, ineffable...
Only to those who have thirst, shall we give these three arcanes of Eden, so that they may awaken their seven serpents. Those who drink from our three glasses will never thirst again; and rivers of pure water will flow from their abdomens.
Why do the natives of Virgo suffer? Why do they cry? Why are they not happy in love?
All sins shall be forgiven, except the sins against the Holy Spirit.
The natives of Virgo suffer because they committed Adultery and Fornication in past lives.
The natives of Virgo suffer great amorous deceptions. in Virgo, Mercury becomes reasoning. Reason is of the animal soul, The animal soul is the mind. The mind is the cave of desire.
One cannot kill desire without taking it out of its cave, of its den.
Imagine a tranquil lake. If you were to throw a stone in that lake, thou would see a series of waves coming from the center to the periphery; Take that same image to the mind. All of a sudden you will see a pornographic image; that image passes from the senses to the lake of thy mind, the latter then reacts with its waves before the external impact and its waves then knock strongly on our sexual organs, producing sexual excitement that is consumed in copulation.
Subdue the senses and dominate the mind so that you may not react before external impacts.
The den of the beast of desire is in the mind. The great intellectuals are terribly passionate, vicious and fornicating beings.
They have developed the mind and the mind is the animal soul.
When we move under the direction of the material mind or animal soul in the physical world, then we create problems for ourselves; we stay imprisoned, suffering the inexpressible. The man who acts only under hunches is happy, will never lack bread, shelter and refuge; will never have problems.
Virgo rules over the abdomen.
The forces that rise from the earth, on arriving at the stomach, are charged with adrenal hormones which prepare and purify them for their ascent to the heart.
Virgo works on the isles of Langerhan which secrete insulin, so necessary for the treatment of diabetes.
In the Zodiacal Course of Master “Huiracocha”, we are taught that we should give small
“jumps” to the stomach during this sign, so that the energies that rise from the earth be charged in the stomach, with adrenal hormones. One should be lying in a horizontal position.
The fundamental zodiacal exercises that we give here, come from the ancient temples of mysteries and, therefore, are not the exclusive patrimony of anyone. However, we must be grateful to the great Guru Arnold Krumm Heller (Huiracocha) who had collected and investigated them, to make them known to us in his marvelous Zodiacal Course. During the zodiacal sign of Virgo, thou should vocalize the vowel “U” daily to develop the telepathic center of the solar plexus, like this: UUUUUUUUU…. during one hour daily.
Sit in a comfortable chair, focus thy mind on thy Inner-Self and ask him to betake himself to the heart temples of the stars of Virgo, so that he may bring the Gods of Virgo to thy house, so that they may awaken thy virgin powers and heal thy stomach.
Be assured, beloved reader, that the Sidereal Gods will attend thy call.
Thy Inner-Self can enter and leave the body anytime he wants and due to this, he is not enslaved in the body.
He will really enter the sidereal temples, do the necessary salutes, as I have taught thee in the first lessons and will bring the sidereal Gods to thy side, to prepare thy body.
The planets move, evolve and progress within the conscience. The sidereal temples are within the conscience. Man is a zodiac and the zodiacal belt is within the conscience. The ten Sephiroths of the Kabbalah are the solar system. The seven inferior sephiroths are the seven planets and the crown of Kether, Chokmah and Binah, are the trill spiritual sun.
Those ten sephiroths are within us and we should learn to manipulate them. We should learn how to transfer ourselves to the different stars to know the horoscope of people.
Conversing with the sidereal Gods, we will know our horoscope without the need for the so touted arithmetic astrology.
Arithmetic astrology was for the “Black Age”. The age of “Astro-Theurgy” has now arrived!
We need to learn the sparkle of the stars, manipulating it to heal the sick. One has to learn to work over the earth, from the sidereal temples. We have to learn how to work over the earth from the twelve zodiacal signs.
The era of Aquarius has arrived, and a new lineage reigns; the era of the “super man” has arrived.
The earth is a small blue star. The inhabitants of other planets of the solar system, when born under the influence of our planet earth, are mystics by nature and love sacrifice and altruism. They suffer much in their lives and feel much love for all that is alive; but the black magicians of the bright blue star, called earth, are extremely perverse and evil.

---

LIBRA

From the 23 of September to the 23 of October.
Rules: The Kidneys
Metal: Copper
Stone: Chrysolite
Perfume: Galbanum
Plant: Pine and Cypress
Flower: Narcissus
Planet: Venus
Color: Green
Element: Air
Key Word: Love
Day: Friday
Ruler: Uriel

Today we have entered the equilibrating sign of Libra. This sign is the house of Saturn and Venus.
The planets: the Moon, Mercury, Venus, the Sun, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn live and throb within “our” conscience.
The soul develops and unfolds within this solar system, that lives in the very depth of our conscience.
Among the death and new birth of the “good souls”, they should unfold within each one of the planetary auras whose mixtures form that which all books of spiritualism denominate “planes”.
Libra influences the kidneys.
Libra is the sign of the equilibrating forces and the forces of our human organism should balance in a “total” form in our kidneys.
All the forces of the Universe keep seeking equilibrium and we should learn the equilibrium of all things.
Thou should not mix antagonistic forces because terrible destructive forces result from such mixture. Look carefully at those who surround thee and do not live in a house with people full of hatred, or superficiality, because the mixture of antagonistic forces creates destructive forces for thee and for those who live with thee. Learn, therefore, the force of equilibrium.
Intellectuals end up “nutty” or crazy because they attempt against the forces of equilibrium.
Imagine an encounter of energies forming an X. Now then, let us take this example to man. Every human has a connection of seven vehicles and if we concentrate our attention on the mind or mental body, which is the center of thy X, the result would be the rupture of the mental body.
Intellectuals who have their attention fixed on the intellect, end up breaking the mental body. Almost all intellectuals have their manias, insanities dissimulated by theories and
“manias”.
In ancient times, man was more simple and since he did not have the intellect of the animal soul, he perceived the subtle and the planetary genii.
Ancient men grew spiritually under the influence of the “Ursa Major” and students should meditate intensely on the Ursa Major if they want to awaken consciousness. That constellation radiates powerful spiritual forces and man should learn to converse with the sidereal genii of that constellation.
There is a key to transfer oneself to that constellation. The key is to meditate profoundly on a “yellow stone” that exists in the astral. Do this exercise in the moments of transition between vigil and sleep and thou shall then transfer thyself in the astral body to the largest star of the Ursa Major, where a powerful and gigantic civilization exists.
Since the seventeenth century, the earth entered a new era of spiritual awakening. That awakening will shine in all its splendor in the sign of Aquarius, the present era. The cause of that awakening is due to the influence of the great enlightened “Buddha” who in the seventeenth century became the redeemer of the Martian humanity, was crucified in the forces of Mars, to redeem the Martians and help our terrestrial humanity with “BuddhicMartian” forces that radiate from Mars.
Michael, Gabriel, Raphael and Orifiel are the four Lords that rule the karmic balance of the four winds (North, South, East and West). These are the four angels of the four cardinal points of the earth. Esoteric Astrology should live within the law of perfect equilibrium.
Sunday, Wednesday, Friday, Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday is the true and legitimate order of the days of the week.
This is the authentic and legitimate calendar that the Roman-Catholic sect adulterated and which befalls on us to restore, to live in accordance with the law of equilibrium. The authentic week is based on the law of true equilibrium and planetary order.
We should learn how to look at the alternatives of pleasure and pain, of profit and loss, with indifference.

The Bhagavad Gita says:
“The mind that follows wandering thoughts, makes the soul as invalid as the boat which the wind leads astray on the waters”.
“Kill sensation, teach the Sutta Nipata; equally see pleasure and pain, profit and loss, victory and defeat’
The natives of Libra are very skillful in everything, but suffer much in love, since their love affairs and life are as unstable as the scale.

EXERCISE

Stand up, with the feet firm and arms extended to the sides in the form of a cross, or scale and move inclining the waist seven times to the right and seven towards the left, with the intention that all our energies become balanced in our kidneys.

---

SCORPIO

From the 24 of October to the 22 of November.
Rules: The Sexual Organs
Metal: Magnet
Stone: Topaz
Perfume: Coral
Plant: The Oak Tree
Flower: Chrysanthemum
Planet: Mars
Color: Red
Element: Water
Key Word: Action
Day: Tuesday
Ruler: Samael

We have arrived at the omnipotent empire of strength and power. We now only want to speak in the language of majesty and might.
We now only want to understand the omnipotence of strength. This is the terrible kingdom of Pluto, the omnipotent empire of strength and of the magician. This is the igneous dwelling of Bellicose Mars.
Legions of the earth!
Legions of the air!
Legions of the waters!
Legions of the fire!
Obey us!
Scorpio rules the sexual organs and in the latter resides all the power of the magician.
Scorpio is the house of Mars and “Pluto”, the visitor.
We say visitor because this terrible Genie of practical magic does not belong to this solar system. He is merely a visitor who is helping all the warriors of the rocky path.
Within his majestic temple, we see two enormous symbolical “balls”. See him there! His
“veiled” face is terribly divine and exhales the omnipotence of power. Pluto attends the initiate’s call when black forces attack us. Pluto can defend us from the tenebrous lords of black magic. See him there! He has cast his ball and attends the call of a supplicant!
Sons of the earth! Listen to thy instructors, the sons of the fire!
Now beloved disciple, we will deliver to thee, the supreme key of the Great Arcane.
The omnipotent secret of the Kundalini.
The Kundalini is awakened with sexual magic.
During moments of love, in which the couple feels ineffable delights, thou should connect thyself with thy wife, sexually and pronounce during this connection, the powerful mantrams of the Kundalini, as I received them from the angel of command, called Aroch.
These mantrams are the following: Kandil-Bandil-rrrrrrr
They will be vocalized in the form of a song, prolonging the sound of the vowels and raising the voice in the first syllable of each word and lowering it in the second syllable.
The letter “r” is pronounced in a high and sharp manner, like the voice of a child, prolonging the sound as if it was the sound of a motor or a mill when it is left without grain to grind, which produces a sharp and thin sound.
Listen well! These are the most powerful mantrams known in the entire infinite, to awaken the Kundalini.
Thou can also vocalize them mentally and withdraw from thy wife-priestess without seminal ejaculation. The restrained desire will make the energy rise upwards, towards thy head and thus, thou shall awaken thy Kundalini and become Gods.
I will now transcribe a few paragraphs from the 8 lesson of the Zodiacal Course by the
Venerable Master Arnold Krumm Heller, Guru (Huiracocha) Archbishop of the Gnostic
Church, so that our disciples comprehend well these teachings, let us see:
“Instead of the coition that reaches orgasm, considerate soft caresses should be given, amorous phrases and delicate touches constantly maintaining the mind away from animal sexuality, as if the act was a true religious ceremony’
“However, the man can and should introduce the penis and keep it in the feminine sex so that a divine sensation, full of joy, which can last complete hours, overcomes them, withdrawing it at the moment the spasm draws nearer to avoid ejaculation of semen; in this manner they will have more and more desire each time to caress each other’
“This can be repeated as many times as desired, without exhaustion ever befalling, since on the contrary, it is the magical key to be rejuvenated, daily maintaining the body healthy and prolonging life since it is a fountain of health with this constant magnetization “.
‘We know that in ordinay magnetism, the magnetizer communicates fluids to the subject, and if the former has these energies developed, he can heal the latter”.
“The transmission of the magnetic fluid is ordinarily done by the hands or the eyes, but it is necessary to say that there isn’t a more powerful conductor, a thousand times more powerful, a thousand times superior than the others, than the virile member and the vulva, as organs of reception”.
“If many people practice this, strength and prosperity spreads around them for a/l those who come into commercial or social contact with them, but in the act of divine, sublime magnetization, to which we refer, both man and woman are reciprocally magnetized, being one for the other like a musical instrument that when strummed, ejects or produces sounds prodigious of mysterious and sweet harmonies, The chords of that instrument are scattered all over the body, and in the lips and fingers are its principal pulsators, on the condition that the most absolute purity presides this act, which is what makes us magicians in this supreme instant”.
These paragraphs from the 8th lesson of the sublime Huiracocha, enclose the supreme secret of the grand arcanum, of which Eliphas Levi speaks to us so much about, without ever having dared to reveal it.
This is the key to awaken the Kundalini and make oneself a magician.
“The Kundalini is the igneous serpent of our magical powers”.
The Kundalini is the solar fire locked up within a membranous pocket in the coccygeal bone, within the sacral region, which is the base of the spinal column.
The Kundalini is the sexual fire. The Kundalini is the fire of the Holy Spirit The
Kundalini is the flaming sword of the Cherubim that guards the entrance to Eden. This is why in the masterpiece titled “The Gnostic Church”, Master Huiracocha says that we should take advantage of the medulla and the semen to the maximum, because therein lies the redemption of man. Referring to the semen, the Master says in “Esoteric Rose”:
“Raise well thy cups, and be careful of not spilling even a single drop of thy precious liquid”.
Refrained desire will transmute the semen into Christic energy and this energy will at the same time be bi-polarized into positive and negative to rise in two nervous canals located at the right and left of the spinal medulla. In India, these two spermatic canals are called:
Ida and Pingala.
The right canal is positive and therein ascend the solar atoms. The left canal is lunar and therein rise the lunar atoms.
Ida and Pingala part from a sacral center called “tribeni”, located above the medulla oblongata.
The semen is transmuted into Christic energies.
That energy is the wine of light, that wine of light converts us into living Buddhas.
The two canals Ida, and Pingala, resound with the musical note of the Chinese gong, or the musical “fa”.
The spinal medulla with its two nervous cords is the Brahmatic cord. The spinal medulla is the rod of Brahma, Aaron’s rod, the rod of the patriarchs, the rod of Moses, the sceptre of the divine kings, and the bamboo cane of seven joints of the yogis in India.
The secret to awaken the Kundalini is in the miracle that Christ did at the wedding of
Cana. The transmutation of water into wine is accomplished in nuptials during the trance of sexual magic, with refrained effort, water (semen) will be transmuted into wine of aichemical light.
When the solar and lunar atoms of our seminal energy make contact in the center of the coccyx, then the snake begins to move, producing a great pain in the coccyx. It breaks the membranous pocket and enters the spinal medulla through an orifice which remains closed in run-of-the-mill people.
The vapors that rise from the semen uncover that orifice, which is the door of the
Sushumna canal. This canal advances along the spinal medulla to the end of the cervical vertebrae; thereby rises the igneous serpent or liquid fire of the Kundalini. This sacred fire rises along a fine string that serves as a conductor within the canal of the medulla.
The Ascension of the Kundalini is regulated by the fires of the heart. In occultism, the spinal vertebrae are called: “canyons or pyramids”.
Each canyon has its occult name and powers.
The spinal column has 33 canyons and 33 divine atoms.
The ascent of the Kuridalini is carried out “canyon by canyon”, “degree by degree”.
Each canyon costs terrible tests in the physical and astral planes. This is the path of unutterable bitterness and martyrdom.
The nervous branches, which communicate the chakras with the medulla part from the fine cord of the medulla.
The Kundalini sets fire to all the lotus flowers or chakras of our organism as it rises
“canyon by canyon”.
Through the 33 canyons, we pass through the chambers of the great Masonic Lodge of the astral plane.
The external chambers are the lesser mysteries, and the internal chambers are the greater mysteries.
The disciple should learn the Masonic salutes from his own Inner Being: “The Internal
Master” should teach them to him. The thickness of the Kundalini will depend on the amount of stored sexual energy. The color of the Kundalini depends on the psychological idiosyncrasy of the disciple.
The Kundalini rises in accordance with the practice of sexual magic and in accordance with our process of sanctification, for as we said, the ascension depends on the merits of the heart.
We have to sum up our defects and dedicate two months to each defect in a successive order, until we put an end to all the defects. This simple rule is the key to making the
Kundalini rise, because the disciple then comes out triumphant in all the astral and physical tests, and wins the canyons quickly one after the other.
A single ejaculation or sexual discharge is enough for a fuse to be burnt, that is to say, for the nervous cord through which the Kundalini ascends, to fail; then the fire falls one or two canyons according to the magnitude of the fault, and, consequently, loses the acquired powers.
Our Lord the Christ told me: “The disciple should not let himself fall, he has to struggle very much to recover what has been lost”.
Throughout the initiations of lesser mysteries, the disciple has to pass through the entire tragedy of Golgotha, will at last climb the Golgotha of High Initiation, where he will be fused with his Inner Being and become Master of the White Lodge.
High initiation is the fusion of two principles: Atma-Buddhi or the five principal initiations of greater mysteries.
With the first we achieve the fusion of Atma-Buddhi and with the fifth, we add the
Manas to this fusion, and so the septenary is reduced to a trinity; “Atma-Buddhi Man as”.
There are a total of 9 initiations of greater mysteries.
Atman is the Being. Atman is the Inner Being. Atman is our internal Angel, and Buddhi is our spirit-soul.
When the Inner Being and the soul-spirit fuse, a new Master of humanity is born, and when the “Manas” or human soul is added to this fusion, then a new blessed one is born.
Redemption begins outside the inferior I, and ends outside the Interior I.
We already spoke of the seven serpents of Eden in the sign of Virgo. We have seven bodies and seven serpents of fire. Each of the seven bodies has its Kundalini, its serpent.
The first serpent opens to thee the seven churches located in the buddhic body. A stigmatized and Christified buddhic body inevitably fuses with the Inner Being.
The second serpent belongs to the etheric body and takes us to the second initiation of greater mysteries, which confers upon us the power to travel in the etheric body or Somapuchicon which Max Heindel talks to us about.
The third serpent corresponds to the astral body, and totally opens for us all the
“chakras”, wheels or discs of the astral body, and corresponds to the third of greater mysteries.
The fourth serpent corresponds to the mental body, and permits us to christify the mind.
The Christ-mind takes us to the fourth initiation of greater mysteries, and confers the degree of “Arhat” upon us.
The fifth serpent belongs to the causal body, from which we extract the human soul or manas to fuse it with Atma-Buddhi. This is the fifth initiation and confers the degree
“Aseka” upon us.
The Sixth serpent belongs to Buddhi. This sixth portal is like a cup of transparent and white alabaster within which the fire of the Inner Being burns. You are that cup now burning with the fire of your sixth serpent.
The seventh serpent belongs to the very body of the Inner Being.
From the physical body, through the Kundalini, we extract the “soul-conscience” which, absorbed in the buddhi, becomes fused with the Inner Being. From the etheric body, we extract through the golden Kundalini of this body, the sapient-soul.
From the Astral through the snowy Kundalini of that vehicle, we extract the conscious soul. From the mental body through its respective Kundalini, we extract a spiritual summary of the astral body. From the causal or will body we extract a spiritual tablet, or human soul. The other two serpents take us to the ineffable bliss of Nirvana. These are the seven degrees of the power of fire. Only the terror of love and law reign throughout these seven portals.
The eighth and ninth degrees take us to ineffable regions...
The pratyeka Buddhas have the eighth initiation, and the ninth belongs to the degree of the King of the World.
The construction of the spinal system and the medulla is analogous in each of the seven bodies. Each of the seven bodies is a complete organism; all the seven medullas interpenetrate each other without becoming confused.
The seventh initiation confers upon us the degree of “Mahachoan”. The Mahachoan becomes guardian of the akashic archives and director of the works of the Great White
Lodge.
The waters of the Hoang-ho on passing torrential, intone the “gong”, that is to say, the keynote “fa” of nature, which makes our Kundalini vibrate, in the sacred river of life.
Buddha, the redeemer of Mars, now radiates buddhic force from that planet, which with
Scorpio enters our seminal system and moves in us the incentive of christification.
Buddhic atoms flood our seminal canals. The buddhic atoms fill our internal vehicles and saturate the very internal structures with the strength of Mars.
Buddha has become a warrior, now he radiates his powerful “Buddhic-Martian” energy from Mars.
What a marvel of Creation this is!
Buddha has become a warrior!
The Buddhic-Martian atoms will produce the age of intuition. (Aquarius)
Our buddhic principle is the superlative conscience of the Being; it is the “soul spirit”.
Now the warrior force of Mars has become buddhic, and the heroes of Light will surge everywhere.
Mars, in Scorpio, makes the atoms of Buddha reach our seminal system to achieve the christification of man. The buddhic atoms, under the force of Mars, will convert us into living Christs.
Buddha, the Christ of the Martians, now throbs in our seminal system. Our body and our buddhic atoms confer upon us the gift of “feeling” the supreme knowledge. The buddhic conscience is now warlike, and a new type of warriors has been born, those of Light, the paladins of the New Era. The New Era will emerge from the wars of this century, because
Mars is now buddhic.
The sacrifice of Buddha on Mars was like that of the Christ among us. Buddha prepared himself on earth to later become the Christ of the Martians.
The natives of Scorpio are of strong will, but should fight against the defect of anger, of hatred and vengeance. The natives of Scorpio are either totally chaste or fornicators altogether. They always pass through bitterness before the age of thirty.
Topaz, the stone. Bright red, the color. Iron, the metal.
Sons of men! Dost thou want to enter the ineffable bliss of Nirvana?
Dost thou want to become Gods?
Dost thou want to become Christs?
Dost thou want to become free of the wheel of births and deaths?
Here I have given thee the key of sexual magic!
What more dost thou want?

---

SAGITTARIUS

From the 23 of November to the 21 of December.
Rules: The Hips and Thighs
Metal: Tin
Perfume: Aloe
Stone: Blue Sapphire
Plant: American Agave, Maguey
Flower: Hydrangea
Planet: Jupiter
Color: Blue
Element: Fire
Keyword: Benevolence
Day: Thursday
Ruler: Sachariel

In our present course, we have arrived at the constellation of Sagittarius. Metal: tin.
Stone: blue sapphire.
The natives of Sagittarius are extremely passionate and fornicators.
Eliphas Levi says:
“Unfortunate be the Samson of the Kabbalah who lets himself be put to sleep by Delilah.
The Hercules of science who exchanges his royal sceptre for the bone of Onfalia, will very soon feel the revenge of Deyanira, and nothing else will be left for him but the fire of Mount Aetna to escape the tormenting devourers of the robe of Neso”
The seven planets of the solar system are the seven sephiroths and the triune spiritual sun is the sephirothic crown. These ten sephiroths live and throb in our own conscience and we must learn to manipulate and change them in the marvelous laboratory of our interior
Universe. These ten sephiroths are:
Kether. The balancing force. “The Magician” of the first arcane of the Tarot, whose primitive hieroglyph is represented by a man.
Chokmah. Wisdom. The Priestess of the Tarot. Occult wisdom. The second card of the
Tarot. The moon, primitive hieroglyph, is the mouth of man,
Binah. Intelligence. The Planet Venus, the third card of the Tarot. The Empress. The primitive symbol is a hand in the attitude of taking.
These three sephiroths are the sephirothic crown. Then the seven inferior sephiroths are in the following order:
Chesed. Jupiter. The divine being. Atman, primitive hieroglyph: a breast. The fourth card of the Tarot. Mercy. The card of the Emperor.
Geburah. Strictness. The fifth card of man. The Pope or the Tarot hierophant: Mars, the warrior of Aries.
Tiphereth. Venus of Taurus, beauty, love of the Holy Spirit, the buddhic body of man.
The sixth card of the Tarot. The lover.
Hod. Mercury of Gemini. The chariot of the Tarot. The seventh card and the eternity of everything.
Netsah. The justice of the arcane. The eighth card of the Tarot; Saturn: Victory.
Jesod. The Sun of Leo. The ninth card of the Tarot. The hermit. The absolute.
Malkuth. The entire universe, Mary or Virgo. Nature.
These ten sephiroths live within our Being, and are our solar system. The Tarot is intimately related with esoteric Astrology and with initiation.
Arcane X (10). It is the first hour of Apollonius, the transcendental study of Occultism.
The first hour of Apollonius.
Arcane Xl (11). It is the second hour of Apollonius. Strength. The pits of fire. The astral virtues form a circle through dragons and fire. (Study of Occult forces.)
Arcane XII (12). Sacrifice. The third hour of Apollonius. The serpents, the dogs and the fire. Sexual Alchemy. Work with the Kundalini, (sexual magic).
Arcane XIII (13). Death. The fourth hour of Apollonius. The neophyte will wander at night among the sepulchres, will experience the horror of visions, will give himself up to magic and goethia. (This means that the disciple will see himself attacked by millions of black magicians in the astral plane; those dark magicians will attempt to draw the disciple away from the luminous path.
Arcane XIV (14). The two urns, “Divine magnetism and human magnetism”. The superior waters of heaven. During this time the disciple will learn to be pure and chaste, because he comprehends the value of his seminal liquid.
Arcane XV (15). (The electric hurricane) The Baphomet. The sixth hour of Apollonius.
“Here it is necessary to be still, motionless, because of fear”. (This means the terrible test of the guardian of the threshold, before which one needs much courage to overcome it).

Arcane XVI (16). The fulminated tower. The seventh hour of Apollonius. Fire comforts the courageous beings, and if a priest, a sufficiently purified man, steals and then projects it, and if he mixes it with holy oil and then consecrates it, he will achieve the healing of illnesses with merely applying it to the infected part. (The initiate here sees his material fortune threatened arid his business fail.)

Arcane XVII (17). The star of hope. The eighth hour of Apollonius

Arcane XVIII (18). The star of the magi. The ninth hour of Apollonius. The astral virtues of the elements, of the seeds of all types. (Study of the lesser mysteries, the nine arcades through which the student has to climb.)

Arcane XIX (19). The shining Light. The tenth hour of Apollonius. “The doors of heaven open and man comes out of his lethargy”. This is the number ten of the second great initiation of greater mysteries that permits the initiate to travel in the etheric body. This is the wisdom of John the Baptist.

Arcane XX (20). “The awakening of the dead”. The eleventh hour of Apollonius. “The
Angels, the Cherubims and the SeraphIms fly with murmurs of wings. There is rejoicing in heaven, the earth awakens and the sun surges from Adam”.
This process belongs to the great initiations of greater mysteries where only the terror of the law reigns.

Arcane XXI (21). The crown of the magicians. The twelfth hour of Apollonius. The courts of fire become still. This is the victorious entry into the limitless bliss of nirvana, where the Master is clothed with the shining robe of dharmasaya, or renounces the bliss of nirvana for the love of humanity, and becomes a Bodhisattva of Compassion, he is a savior of poor aching humanity, he is one more wedge of the protective wall raised with the blood of martyrs. Samyak Sambuddho, Master of perfection, renounced nirvana for the love of humanity.

The perfect Buddhas, dressed with the glory of Dharmasaya, can no longer help man or humanity, because nirvana is the forgetting of the world and men forever. The
Bodhisattvas: Kuan-Shiyin, Tashisni, Buddha and Christ radiate their light over suffering humanity.
After great sacrifices, the Bodhisattvas enter a supernirvanic world of happiness. The protective wall is formed by the “Bodhisattvas of compassion”. We, the Gnostics, follow the steps of our predecessors.
Aun Vajrapni Hum.
In this lesson of Jupiter in Sagittarius, we have talked to thee of the nirvanic path, because thunderous Jupiter is the sacred symbol of our Inner Being. This reminds us of the capitoline Jupiter of the Romans. Jupiter in Sagittarius, influences the large femoral arteries, where the blood is totally magnetized under Jupiter

EXERCISE

Squat, like the Peruvian guacas. Place your hands on your legs, with the index fingers pointing upwards, towards heaven, to attract the rays of Jupiter, exactly as Huiracocha teaches us, so that we may intensely magnetize the femorals,
The mantram is “ISIS”, which is pronounced vocalizing it like this:
IIIIISSSSSSSIIIIIIISSSSSSS,
Pronouncing a sibilant sound, with the S like that of the wind. With this clue you will totally awaken clairvoyance, and will obtain the power to read the “Akashic” records of
Nature.
We now have to meditate intensely on the Inner Being, begging him to bring us the
Angel Zachariel to help us.

In this path we will have to live all the twelve hours of which the great sage Apollonius spoke about. “Papus”, the black magician, tried to desfigure the twelve hours of
Apollonius with teachings of Black Magic, liquidating all the millions of Kabbalistic volumes that drift in the world. We arrived at the conclusion that: all Kabbalah is reduced to the twenty-two major arcanes of the Tarot and four aces, which represent the four elements of Nature.
On such a simple thing, scholars have written millions of volumes and theories that would turn “crazy” anyone who had the bad taste of becoming intellectualized with all that arsenal.
The worst of it is that in questions of Kabbalah, the black magicians took over what they found, to disfigure the teaching and lead the world astray. The works of Papus are legitimate black magic.
The Tarot is a book as ancient as the ages, and is intimately related with the wisdom of the planetary gods. This book is the Tarot deck and is made up of 78 cards, divided into
22 called major arcanes, 56 denominated lesser arcanes.
The four aces represent the elements of Nature.
The Ace of Spades symbolizes fire.
The Ace of Hearts symbolizes water.
The Ace of Diamonds symbolizes air.
The Ace of Clubs symbolizes earth.
All the 56 cards of the lesser arcanes are based on these four Aces, and on the ten numbers of our decimal system. In the 22 major arcanes, for example, a four of Clubs, is no other but the arcane “4”, the emperor and the symbol of the Ace of Clubs repeated four times; the same happens with the 56 cards of the lesser arcanes. Intuitively interpret these cards combining the natural element with the major arcanes and the problem is resolved.
For example: a six of diamonds would be interpreted by combining the arcane VI with the element air, or “soul”, symbolized by the diamonds; this would say: “a love affair”, and so successively.
There are two kinds of Kabbalists: inteflectual Kabbalists and intuitive Kabbalists, The intellectual Kabbalists are black magicians; the intuitive Kabbalists are white magicians.
The sidereal gods many times answer us by showing us a card of the Tarot; then we intuitively comprehend the answer that has been given to us. The intuitive Kabbalists, by merely looking at a card of the Tarot, comprehend what destiny reserves for them.
On a certain occasion I consulted a genie about the convenience of making a trip, for which I was not prepared economically. The planetary genie showed me 3 cards. One of them was a King of diamonds, everything beautifully embroidered with gold; I understood with my heart and made my trip. Everything went very well.
When humanity was judged before me, I saw the Tarot extended in lines of seven cards, and when a certain card of the sixth line was shown, the Gods judged the great prostitute
(humanity) and considered her unworthy. The sentence of the Gods was: “To the abyss, to the abyss, to the abyss, to the abyss”! (The number of humanity is 666).
The white magician prays to the Gods, throws his cards on the table with closed eyes, and beseeching his God, picks up a card, observes it, and makes the forecast with his intuition. Each card of the Tarot is by itself a total forecast.
The exercises of Sagittarius are to awaken clairvoyance and to see and comprehend all these things. The Kabbalists of intuition understand everything with the heart. The
Intellectual Kabbalists want to resolve everything with the animal mind. The Kabbalist of intuition is only guided by the voice of the silence, the Inner Being. These cards of the
Tarot is the language of the superior worlds of Light. These cards of the Tarot are the occult wisdom of the Sidereal Gods.
The 12 hours of Apollonius are the path of initiation. It is horrifying to see how men have accumulated so many theories on this book as simple and sublime as God.
The 78 plates of the Tarot are like 78 ineffable hieroglyphs shining in this pyramid of five angles called man 1-2-3-4=10; the entire progress of the student is based on these numbers. Each year has its Kabbalistic card which allows us to make intuitive forecasts.

Examples:

1951, is broken up like this: 1-9-5-1=16 Arcane XVI. The fulminated tower. Meaning divine destruction. Before the 21st of March of 1952, a great nation received a great
Karmic punishment. (This is already defined). If we add together all the numbers of our birthdate, we would obtain our own Kabbalistic number. There are those who figure out the numerical value of the letters in their own names and surnames. Iglesias Janeiro is a specialist in this but we are not interested in this branch, because it has not yet been studied in depth esoterically, in a scientific manner. The only thing I have proven is that within the name of people, according to the sense of the letters, Karma is enclosed. For example: women whose name is Dolores, suffer the unutterable in life. A certain
Colombian politician had the surname “Turbay”, which we could break up like this: turba ais or ai, turba. This politician died without seeing his success and the turbas (crowds) did not follow him.
The authorized Kabbalist only acts under the voice of the Inner being. When the intellect wants to combine the cards of the Tarot on its own, it falls into the most painful aberrations.
The Tarot is the esoteric wisdom of the stars.
The cards of the Tarot are taken from the most ineffable worlds of edenic Light The meaning of the 22 major arcanes is the following:

1St. Man or the magician.
2 Woman and occultism.
3 Humanity and Creation.
4 Power and what is created.
5 Authority and mental life.
6 Love and amorous attraction.
7 The chariot of war. Struggles.
8 Justice. Suffering.
9 Divine Love, prudence.
10 Fortune.
11 Courage.
12 Sacrifice.
13 Death, transformations.
14 Temperance, chastity.
15 Fatality.
16 Catastrophe and destruction.
17 Hopes.
18 Occult enemies.
1 9The truth.
20 Changes.
21 Total Demoralitation
22 Victory

---

CAPRICORN

From the 22 of December to the 19 of January.
Rules: the Knees and the Skin
Metal: Lead.
Stone: Onyx.
Perfume: Pine Extract.
Plant: False Plantain.
Flower: Lotus.
Planet: Saturn.
Color: Black.
Element: Earth.
Key Word: Obstruction.
Day: Saturday.
Ruler: Orifiel.

Today we have arrived at the constellation of Capricorn in this course.
This constellation is the house of Saturn, the elder of Time. Saturn is the most faraway planet of the Earth’s solar system. The moon is the closest satellite to earth. Mercury follows and then, in order of distance, follows Venus, the Sun, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn, in orderly intervals of distance.
On this natural and cosmic basis is based the very ancient calendar of: Monday,
Wednesday, Friday, Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.
The Roman Catholics adulterated this legitimate calendar, and based on this falsification, the modernist Astrology of Arithmetic has been erected. It is logical then, for modern
Astrology, sustained on a false basis, to be a true failure.
Now it is our responsibility to restore the authentic ancient Astrology, and for this, it is of necessary and essential urgency, to return once again to the legitimate Archaic Calendar.
All the Astrological works of Max Heindel and of Alpherat, are based on a false calendar, they do not have a fundamental basis, and are mistaken.
We, the Gnostics, are the restorers of the esoteric wisdom.
I, Samael Aun Weor, am the Great Avatar of Aquarius. I am the initiator of the New Era.
I am the messenger of the superior worlds of consciousness and I have come to bring the culture for the New Era. I have come to form a new race of gods, and I want thee to listen to me. “Ask and it shall be given thee”, “Knock and it shall be opened”. This is what the sacred Scriptures say.
I have taught thee the unutterable mystery of the great arcane, and I want thee to learn to manipulate the spark of the stars to govern Nature.
Listen to me properly:
The planetary hours as they come in the astrological annuals and texts of Astrology in general, are false and absurd, because the calendar in fashion is false and absurd, and because no archaic people ever used the so “boastful” and curious hours of the modern astrologers.
The ancient sages considered the day as a cross within a perfect circle. These old contemplators of the stars, with their scrutinizing eyes, penetrated profoundly in the mysteries of the stars and received the enlightenment of the planetary Gods. Those old astrologers learnt from the Gods that the day is divided into four parts, like a cross within the perfect circle.
They knew that the day was only governed by four planets according to the old order:
Moon, Mercury, Venus, Sun, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn
The first quarter of the day is governed by the planet of the day, which carries its name, and the second, third and fourth quarters of the day develop according to the order of the planets: Moon, Mercury, Venus, Sun, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn.
So, Monday corresponds to the actual Sunday, and the present Saturday is the seventh day.
In this manner, the twelve hours of the day are divided into four parts, each of them of three hours.
This simple, fast and easy method lets us know exactly what planet is ruling space at a given moment. This was the system that the great ancient Astrologers knew, and they learnt it from the sidereal Gods.
Here one does not need the famous calculations of the arithmetic astrologers. Here the only thing required is a little practice and good sense to know the sidereal time.
This so simple and sublime system can be learnt by anyone, since here we do not have any need of so many complications, nor of so many “logarithms”, or of “tables of houses”, or of voluminous astrological “ephemeris”, or of that complicated “jargon” of the pseudo-sapients of arithmetical astrology.
A new lineage of astrologers, the enlightened of the “new era”, the paladins of Aquarius, has now been born. We no longer need the horoscopes of arithmetic, now we converse with the Gods to know the destinies of men.
Shake the dust of thy heads, old astrology professors, because the first bells of Aquarius have resounded, singing the Easter of resurrection.
Leave us in peace, arithmetic astrologers; we are already tired of thy errors, burn all that jargon of logarithms, ephemeris, tables of houses, etc.!
We are now only interested in the paladins of the new era, the enlightened astrologers who know how to talk with the sidereal Gods. We are already bored with so much theory, and we are going to the “grain”, to what is “effective”, to what is “real”. We do not want more blind astrologers, sustained by the crutches of numbers!
We are now only interested in the clairvoyants of the stars, the priests of the sidereal temples, the sages of Aquarius.
The disciple should choose the hours to work with the stars.
In the hours of the Moon, he can work with the Moon; in the hours of Mercury, he can work with Mercury, etc. Saturn is the abode of the green hierarchies. These hierarchies gave man the “animal-soul”, or mental body.
The mind should free itself from all kinds of “schools”, religions, sects, beliefs, etc.
All those “cages” are obstacles which render the mind incapable of thinking freely. There is a need to become free of the illusions of this world and become the fine and marvelous instrument of the Inner-Being.
We have to free the mind of all kinds of desirous reasonings.
It is important to christify the mind; the “christ-mind”.
We need a mind that only thinks with the heart. We need a mind which only listens to the voice of hunches.
We need a mind which does not reason when the heart commands I
The mind which only obeys hunches is a “christ-mind”.
The mind, which does not reason and only acts under the orders from the heart, is the
“christ-mind”.
The mind which does not react before external impacts is a “christ-mind”. The mind should become the instrument of the heart.
What does the reason know? Reason is painful process of the mind, based on the illusion of external things.
Reason does nothing but divide the mind between the struggles of the antithesis. The decisions of reason are daughters of ignorance and always bring pain.
The new humanity will be the humanity of intuition.
The intuitive only acts with the voice of the silence.
The total christification of the mind is only achieved with the Kundalini of the “mental body”.
The Kundalini of the mental body is the fourth degree of the power of fire.
Through the Kundalini of the mental body we extract the “christ-mind” from the animalsoul. We must expel all kinds of earthly thoughts from the mental temple.
Master H.P.B. says the following in the “The Voice of the Silence”:
“Thou have to reach the fixity of the mind in which no breeze, however strong, can waft an earthly thought within. Thus purified, the shrine must of all action, sound, or earthly light be void; even as the butterfly, overtaken by the frost, falls lifeless at the thresholdso must all earthly thoughts fall dead before the fane”.
“Behold it written:”
Ere the gold flame can burn with steady light, the lamps must stand well guarded in a spot free from all wind.”
Reason is of the “animal I”, “intuition” is the voice of the “Inner Being”. Reason is external, intuition is internal.
The fourth degree of power of fire converts us into ARHAT.
The mental body also has its medulla and its serpent. The ascent of the Kundalini of the mind is achieved with the merits of the heart.
In Capricorn, we have spoken of the mind, because this sign is the house of Saturn, and in said astro live the green Hierarchies that gave man his mental body.
Capricorn is the door of heaven, because it is the house of Saturn.
When the soul disembodies, following the “post-mortem” states, it reaches the ultraSaturnian sphere, submerges in the infinite and feels the sensation of having the entire infinite within it. This sensation continues until the soul feels bound to a new physical body which allows it to return once more to the painful school of life to continue its ascent through the spiral of life.
Saturn, Lord of death, finds his house in Capricorn. Capricorn influences the knees and the human skeleton. The currents which rise from the earth, on reaching the knees, become charged with the lead of Saturn. Lead gives strength and constancy to those currents.
The knees possess a marvelous substance which allows them the free movement of such a simple and marvelous osseous gear. “Sinovia” is the substance which means (sin) with, and (ovia) egg; “Substance with egg”.
The egg is truly a marvelous substance. Esoteric experiments, highly scientific, in relation with the unfoldment of the human personality, prove that the shell of the egg has certain occult powers which facilitate astral unfoldment (travel).
The key consists in reducing an eggshell to powder. The disciple will apply these powders over the chest and armpits; he will then lie down on his bed, and cover himself properly with his blankets. The student will then lull himself to sleep, pronouncing the mantram “FARAON”, like this:
FAAAAAAAAA RAAAAAAAAAA ONNNNNNNNNN
This can be pronounced mentally, and when the student feels that he has become numb, he should rise from his bed and head towards the Gnostic Church.
The first syllable “Fa” corresponds to the Chinese Gong, or the musical fa which resounds in the entire creation.
We have to pronounce this note to become attuned with mother nature.
The second syllable “Ra”, corresponds to a very ancient mantram that vibrates all the chakras of the astral body; this mantram is not pronounced with “r” but with “rr” instead, like this: rrrrrrrrraaaaaaaaa.
And the last syllable “On” corresponds to the “Hindu” mantram Om, but is here pronounced as: Onnnnnnnnnnnn.
This mantram “FARAON” can be vocalized with the mind or better yet, with the heart.
Therefore, the powerful Egyptian mantram “Faraon” serves to “travel” in the astral body.

EXERCISE

The following exercise should be practiced during the sign of Capricorn:
A coffin should be imagined on the floor and the disciple should walk over this imagined coffin but leaving it between his legs, and he will walk with bent knees as if to clear an obstacle, and making the knees spin from left to right, with the intention that they become charged with the lead of Saturn, such as our great guru “Huiracocha” taught us
It is also urgent to practice the exercises of internal meditation daily, praying to our
“INNER BEING” to transport himself to the sidereal temples to bring before us the principal genii of that constellation, so that they may awaken the chakras and powers of the knees.
The natives of Capricorn are as melancholic as the willow. They have a great sense of their own moral responsibility. They are pessimistic and always have a Judas in their lives.
They are practical and are always very much preoccupied with tomorrow. Their principal worry is about the economic aspect of life. They suffer much in love, and must always pass through a great amorous deception.
Their metal is lead.
Stone: black onyx.
Color: gray and black.

---

AQUARIUS

From the 20 of January to the 18 of February.
Rules: The Calves of the Leg and the Ankles.
Metal: Aluminum, Uranium and Lead.
Stone: Sapphire and black Pearl
Perfume: the Nard.
Plant: Pine and Cypress.
Flower: Bellorita.
Planet: Uranus.
Color: Green.
Element: Air.
Day: Saturday.
Key Word: Altruism.
Ruler: Archer and Sakmakrel.

Today we have reached the constellation of Aquarius and we have to be frank.
Christification is achieved in parts, body by body. The first thing which becomes christified is the soul-conscience, which we extract from the physical body through the
Kundalini of such a body, to enrich the soul-spirit or buddhic body.
A christified and stigmatized buddhic body inevitably fuses with the Inner Being.
Then follows the christification and stigmatization of the etheric body. This is achieved through the process of progress, evolution and ascension of the Kundalini of the “etheric
Body”
Each body has its “cerebro-spinal” nervous system, its medulla and its Kundalini. Each body is a complete organism. They are then, seven bodies, seven medullae and seven
KundalinisAfter difficult efforts and terrible and painful tests, we have achieved the total ascension of the golden Kundalini of the etheric body. The sun of the Father then shines in the rain of the night, and the five-pointed star over the head of the sage indicates that he has been given in a passing mark in all the painful tests.
The date of the second initiation of greater mysteries of the sage is then set, and the latter enters happy and victorious inside the temple to receive the second initiation of greater mysteries.
This initiation confers upon him the power to travel in the etheric body throughout all the cosmic planes.
The Kundalini of the etheric body opens all the faculties of the etheric body. The psychic extract of the etheric body is absorbed by the Inner Being little by little.
Then follows the christification and stigmatization of the astral body. The Kundalini of the astral body is the color of “lightening” and awakens under the guidance of a specialist.
The Kundalini of the astral body opens the chakras of the astral body for us. Therefore, the full and total development of chakras of the astral body is only obtained with the third
Kundalini, which is the Kundalini of the astral body.
The ascension of the Kundalini of the astral body through the fine cord of the sushumna canal, belonging to the astral medulla, is a very arduous and difficult task, because to conquer each “canyon” of the astral, one has to withstand and overcome the most terrible and indescribable temptations.
When we have already obtained the total ascension of the Kundalini of the astral body, then follows the third initiation of greater mysteries and all the magnetic wheels or discs of the sage’s astral body remain totally open and resplendent.
Later comes the christification of the mind, which converts us into Arahat, This task is achieved through the mental body’s Kundalini, which is the fourth Kundalini.
The fifth serpent belongs to the causal body or superior manas, from where we extract the human-soul to fuse it with the Internal Master, and so we synthesize the septenary into the triad of “Atma-Buddhi-Manas”.
The two superior serpents belong to the Buddhic body and to the “Atmic” body, and they confer upon us the supreme happiness and wisdom of Nirvana.
The eighth and ninth initiations of greater mysteries are practically macrocosmic. The important, part, therefore, resides in the “christification” of the seven bodies, and the entire secret lies in the virile organ and in the “vulva”.
The fire of the Holy-Spirit rises from the semen, which converts us into Gods, but the fire of the Holy Spirit has seven degrees of power, which are the seven degrees of power of fire.
All the symbolical narrations of spiritualist books, when they talk to us about “Initiation”, are totally allegorical, because never ever has anyone, before me, removed the veil of the seven degrees of the power of fire.
Until not too long ago, the majority of spiritualists believed that on awakening the
Kundalini, the latter instantly rose to the head and that man was automatically united with his Inner Being or Internal God, instantly, and converted into Mahatma. How comfortablel How comfortably did all these theosophists, rosicrucians and spiritualists, etc. imagine high initiation.
It has been my responsibility to remove the veil of christification, and that is why I speak clearly, so that you may understand me.
The ascension of each of the seven Kundalinis is slow and difficult. Each canyon or vertebra represents determined occult powers and that is why the conquest of each canyon costs terrible tests.
They are seven serpents and seven terrible portals. Only the terror of love and the law reigns thoughout those seven portals. Not only is it necessary to kill desire but also the very knowledge of desire. The entire secret of power resides in sex.
The sexual force is only “one”, unique and of absolutely universal character, whose principal deposit resides in the absolute.
At the beginning of the manhanvantara, that force expresses itself through the seven degrees of power of fire, and those seven degrees reside in our seven bodies; and they are our seven Kundalinis, which we have to successively raise one after the other, through the seven portals That is why the Buddha said: “Listen to me properly, for in each human
Buddha there are seven Buddhas! These are the seven psychic extracts from the seven bodies and the seven serpents.
The sexual organs of all the living species are merely the instruments of that unique and universal sexual energy.
The key to all the empires and the key to all the powers lie in sexual magic
We must raise our metallic serpent or better said, our seven serpents over the rod, just as
Moses did in the desert and thus we will convert ourselves into terrible powers of the
“blissful Nirvana”.
The sign of Aquarius governs the calves of the legs. The Brazilians call the calves
“ventres das pernas” or “matriz dos pernas “ Translated it means: “womb in the legs or
“uterus of the legs”
Primitive hermaphrodite men reproduced by “spores”, and those spores used to detach from the calves of the legs. The calves are extremely erotic, and that is why every man feels sexually attracted to the woman who has beautiful calves. The terrestrial and celestial forces meet there, combining mutually.
The following exercise will be done during this sign:

EXERCISE

While massaging his calves from below upwards, the disciple will pray like this:

PRAYER

Energy, pass through! Energy, pass through! Penetrate my organism; current that comes from below, ascend and unite with your sister; the current which comes from above, from heaven, from “Uranus”.

The disciple will then submit himself to internal meditation, praying to his “Inner Being” that he may enter the sidereal temples of Aquarius, to bring thee the genii of that constellation so that you may achieve illumination.
Aquarius is house of Uranus, and this planet brings chastity, the genie’s” originality, wisdom. The natives of Aquarius are independent and possess great willpower; they are intuitive and love to travel a lot. They love science and wisdom. They have a disposition for the natural sciences.

---

PISCES

From the 19 of February to the 20 of March.
Rules: The Feet.
Metal: Platinum and Tin,
Stone: Amethyst.
Perfume: Thyme.
Plant: American Agave (maguey) and false Plantain.
Flower: Violet.
Planet: Neptune.
Color: Violet.
Element: Water.
Key Word: Dignity.
Day: Thursday.
Ruler: Rasamosa and Uacabiel.

Today we have arrived at Pisces, the last sign of the Zodiac, governed by Neptune and
Jupiter.
I have prepared this course with a single objective: that you may win the limitless struggle of Nirvana.
Nirvana is the valley of profound silence and of “non-being”, but, in reality, there is our
“true Being”, because there we live in a form so different from our actual state of comprehension that it transcends our ordinary senses, and that is why we call it “non being”, but actually, there is our “real Being”.
Nirvana is beyond love, and that which is beyond love is “absolute happiness”.
Nirvana lies beyond desire, beyond the mind, beyond will, beyond intelligence and much beyond conscience.
Nirvana “is” the Being’s country.
How can we define it? There the soul is totally fused with the Inner-Being, it feels omnipotent and powerful within a happiness that knows no limits.
There, the drop has united within the ocean, and the ocean within the drop. There, the most ineffable melodies entrance us in a state of beatitude which transcends all comprehension.
The great rhythms of fire invade the ineffable precincts of Nirvana, and the souls of majestic countenance, with their robes of Dharmasayas and their mantles of distinction, accompany with their singing, the delicious melodies of the “Mahavan” and the
“Chotaban”, which sustain the cosmos during the manhanvantara,
The Initiator has to communicate the final truth to the disciple, before entering Nirvana.
The Initiator has to teach the disciple the great mystery of Nirvana, before the disciple enters Nirvana itself.
Nirvana is forgetfulness of the world and man forever.
The Gods and other manhanvantaras live there, in an undescribable state of happiness.
There, every tear has disappeared, and only the happiness of the “Being” reigns.
The Nirvanis do not possess any of the four bodies of sin, called: physical, etheric, astral and mental. The Master only takes the psychic extracts from those bodies, which are absorbed and assimilated, before entering Nirvana.
The Nirvanis work under the direction of their stellar fathers:
All men’s Inner-Beings are sons of sidereal genii and there are as many fathers in heaven as there are men on earth.
Every human being, in each human reincarnation, is born under a different star so that the ego is “rounded off”, little by little. But there is an astro that rules our interior and that astro never changes, that is, our father astro. He is our Father who is in the heavens.
Isbener Aldane says: “I raise my eyes towards the stars, from which help will come to me, but I always follow the star which guides my interior.”
When, after the profound night of “pralaya”, the heart of the solar system, begins to throb, at the beginning of the aurora of the manhanvantara, the unmanifested first Logos of the great breath fecundated the Akash, our seven planetary Logos surged, shaping the akash or primordial matter with the fire of life, to construct this solar system that we are evolving in.
These sublime architects of life saw that we were merely unconscious “rays” of the supreme Parabrahatman, the eternal father always obscure, whom we call “The
Absolute”, and those exalted prajapatis or divine angels were the ones who endowed those unconscious rays of the Absolute, with that which today we call “monad” or better yet, “Inner Being”.
Every man has his “Inner Being”, and every “Inner Being” has its father who engendered it; that is, our father who is in heaven.
Aun mani padme jum; this mantram is esoterically pronounced like this:
“Om masi padme yom”, (prolonging the sound of each letter, and syllabicating).
The meaning of this mantram is: “Oh my God in me!”
This mantram should be vocalized with the heart in profound meditation, adoring the
“Inner Being”, rendering cult to the “Inner Being”, because the Inner Being is essentially the soul of our father incarnated in us, our divine individuality in which we need to absorb ourselves to enter that infinite and undescribable happiness of Nirvana, where neither suffering, tears, nor pain exist.
Our Lord, the Christ, taught us to pray like this:
“Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Amen.”
This prayer is done in profound meditation, adoring that ineffable star from which our
“Inner Being” came and in this manner, we will learn to talk with our Father who is in secret.
Many might say: “Well, but how and in what way did our Father in heaven engender us?”
This needs an explanation, let us see:
Our Father is, first of an, a flame of burning fire, and all flame is susceptible to the fiery expansion and development, unfoldment, evolution and independence of each of its sparks. Carry out an experiment with any flame and you will see that the flame can spread everywhere and that each of its sparks can become an independent flame.
Now take this example to the aurora of the manhanvantara and you will then comprehend how thy celestial fathers engendered thee.
Now, if you consider that each spark is associated with its own ray of light, you will then comprehend the relationship of the sparks to light, and of our divine spark with the ray of absolute light to which we belong. That ray of absolute light is our “glorian”
“Our glorian” is a breath profoundly unknown unto itself, Our “Glorian” is a breath of the
Absolute.
Before having a divine monad, it did not have conscience of its own; its conscience was the conscience of the Absolute but it could not say: “I am I”.
But now the “gloriari” of each of us is endowed with a “divine I” and that is why our
“glorian” can already say: “I am I”, “I am the Absolute” and I am “here now”. And thus, intoxicated with happiness, it will submerge within that ocean of supreme absolute happiness at the arrival of the cosmic night, to rise again from its profound rest, like an ineffable God at the beginning of the new manhanvantara’s aurora, and then each one of us, ineffable flames, will expand like fire expands. Each of our divine sparks will become a stone, a plant, an animal, man, and angel and each of our sparks converted into flame will love and adore us, and will raise its singing towards us, forever and ever, Amen, saying..:’Alleluya, alleluya, alleluya!” The incense of its prayers will reach us like an ineffable perfume filled with love.
We will then do for our “sons of the fire”, the same that our fathers have done for us.
It is convenient for the disciple to learn to visit his Father in the astral body, to receive direct instructions from his father who is in heaven.
On falling upon our earth, the stellar rays produce colors, sounds, metallic elementals which condense into metals; metallic elementals that evolving become vegetable elementals; vegetable elementals which transform into animal elementals; and animal elementals which, at last, awaken their divine sparks to incarnate them, for the first time, into men who become angels to return once again to their father who engendered them.
All this descent and ascent of the virginal sparks through this journey of matter is symbolized by the ladder in Jacob’s dream.
What is iron? it is the soul of “Samael-Mars” evolving there.
What is copper? it is the soul of “Uriel-Venus” evolving there.
What is lead? The soul of “Orifiel-Saturn” evolving there.
What is gold? The soul of “Michael-The Sun” evolving there.
What is silver? The soul of “Gabriel-The Moon” evolving there.
What is tin? The soul of “Zachariel-Jupiter” evolving there,
All this flux and reflux of life resounds in entire nature with the Chinese gong.
At the arrival of the cosmic night, all the sparks, converted into flames, return to their fathers, and their fathers return to the unmanitested Logos to submerge themselves into the limitless bliss of the Absolute, where neither tears nor pain exist; where we are all
“one”, where we are all “The Godly”, the “innominate”, “that”, “that”, “that”.
This flux and reflux of life is solidly confirmed in the “Vedas”, which are the most ancient sacred Script. This is the ancient law of the pendulum.
There have been “stellar moments” in the life of mankind, in which the sidereal father of a great genie has been able to talk and express himself through him, to initiate new cycles of spiritual culture.
I, Samael Aun Weor, am only the son and the instrument of “Samael-Mars”, and what I teach thee is the Wisdom of my Father.
Each one of us has his spiritual and astral inheritance, from his Father who is in heaven.
All the mental, emotional, psychic and spiritual faculties are influenced by the occult properties of the scale of causes proceeding from the hierarchy of planetary genii, and not by the physical planets. Once more we say, that because of this, we, the authentic astrologers, are not interested in arithmetic Astrology.
The solar system develops within the womb of the Zodiac, and the twenty-four elders and their twelve zodiacal hierarchies work from this solar system through their planetary rays.
These twenty-four elders have their sacred names; each of the twelve zodiacal constellations is governed by two elders; in this manner:

Aries: Sataaran and Sarahiel.
Taurus: Bagdad and Araziel.
Gemini: Sagras and Saraiel,
Cancer: Ramdhar and Phakiel.
Leo: Sagham and Seratiel,
Virgo: ladara and Schaltiel.
Libra: Grasgarben and Hadakiel.
Scorpio: Richol and Saissalel.
Sagittarius: Vhori and Saritaiel.
Capricorn: Sagdolon and Semakiel.
Aquarius: Archer and Sakmakrel.
Pisces: Rasamosa and Uacabiel.

These are the 24 elders who rule the twelve zodiacal constellations. During your zodiacal exercises you should visit the sidereal temples of the genii with whom you are practicing.
Therefore: in Aries you will visit the genii of Aries, in Taurus, those of Taurus, etc., praying to these genii to come and treat your organs corresponding to the zodiacal sign with which you are working.
These twenty-four elders sometimes meet in the Earth’s heart-temple, around the Lamb.
Our twelve faculties or our twelve senses are the twelve faculties of the zodiac within us.
We should make our zodiac sparkle through these exercises, to become ineffable Gods.
Our body is entirely a musical harp where the seven vowels of nature should resound incessantly. Therefore, during Pisces it is necessary to vocalize the seven vowels as follows:

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE
OOOOOOOOOOOOO
UUUUUUUUUUUUU
AAAAAAAAAAAAA
MMMMMMMMMMM
SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS

The sound of each of these vowels should be taken from our head to our feet. Master
“Huiracocha” says that one hour of daily vocalization is worth more than reading a million books of oriental theosophy.
Pisces influences the feet, which are the sieves through which the energies that rise from the genie of the earth, enter.
Our past lives are written in the lines of our feet, and the ceremony of washing the feet, performed by the Divine Redeemer of the world, means that the “Divine Lamb” has come to wash away our past faults with his blood.
Christ is the lamb of God who washes away the sins of the world.
The key to entering Nirvana resides in absolute sanctity and in absolute chastity.
It is necessary for the student to learn the signs of the heavens. The wife of Julius Caesar, emperor of Rome, saw a star fall in her dreams and tried to save Julius Caesar, but since he did not listen to her, he was assassinated when he entered the capitol of Rome.
When Hitler launched himself to war, I clairvoyantly saw in plain midday, two yellow stars, separating from each other.
In Atlantis existed seven important oracles in the physical world, where men studied the wisdom of the stars and consulted the sidereal Gods. The guardians of those mysteries were great initiates. In the oracle of Mars, Martian occultism was taught; in the oracle of
Jupiter, the Jupiterian religion; in the oracle of Venus, the arts, and Venusian knowledge; in the oracle of Saturn, the wisdom of Saturn; in the oracle of the Moon, lunar occultism; in the oracle of Mercury, Mercurian wisdom; and in the solar oracle, our Gnostic wisdom.
The ancient priests taught their disciples how to interpret the firmament. Those signs are interpreted basing oneself on the law of philosophical analogies, for example: if you see black stars with your clairvoyance, there is failure for thee. If you see a star fall from heaven at the moment when a friend leaves on a trip, there is going to be a funeral for thy friend. If the star falls on someone, or close to someone important, that personage will die. If a wandering star passes before thee by surprise, someone is leaving thee. If you see two yellow stars separating from each other, it means “war”.
Through thy esoteric studies thou shalt remain under the direction of some planetary genii, and they shall call thee by means of luminous signs that thou shalt learn to recognize. Thou should also comprehend the sparkle of thy celestial Father’s star when he calls thee to instruct thee in the mysteries of Light.
This earth, so dense, that thou inhabits today, will in a remote day be etheric and we will then have the celestial Jerusalem where neither tears nor pain exist. By then, the constellation of Orion which has brought so much bitterness to the world through the north, will shine illuminating a world full of glee and happiness.
“After this I looked, and, behold, a door was opened in heaven: and the first voice which
I heard was as it were of a trumpet talking with me; which said, Come up hither, and I will show thee things which must be hereafter”.
“And immediately I was in the spirit: and, behold, a throne was set in heaven, and one sat on the throne”.
“And he that sat was to look upon like a jasper and a sardine stone: and there was a rainbow round about the throne, in sight like unto an emerald”.
“And round about the throne were four and twenty seats: and upon the seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting, clothed in white raiment; and they had on their heads crowns of gold”.
“And out of the throne proceeded lightnings and thunderings and voices: and there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne, which are the seven spirits of God”.
“And before the throne there was a sea of glass like unto crystal: and in the midst of the throne, and round about the throne, were four beasts full of eyes before and behind”.
“And the first beast was like a lion, and the second beast like a calf, and the third beast had a face as a man, and the fourth beast was like a flying eagle”.
“An the four beasts had each of them six wings about him; and they were full of eyes within: and they rest not day and night, saying, Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, which was, and is, and is to come”.
“And when those beasts give glory and honor and thanks to him that sat on the throne, who liveth for ever and ever”.
“The four and twenty elders fall down before him that sat on the throne, and worship him that liveth for ever and ever, and cast their crowns before the throne, saying’ç
“Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power: for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created”. (Revelation 4)
May the most profound peace reign in thy hearts

---

APENDIX

Weakly Astrological Timetable

    Astrological Monday
    Moon-Present Sunday

    Astrological Wednesday
    Mercury- Present Monday

    Astrological Friday
    Venus-Present Tuesday

    Astrological Tuesday
    Mars-Present Thursday

    Astrological Thursday
    Jupiter-Present Friday

    Astrological Saturday
    Saturn-PresentSaturday

    Astrological Sunday
    Sun-Present Wednesday

AUTHENTIC COSMOGRAPHIC MAP

The authentic cosmographic map is impressed in the human organism. 

The chest is our Mercury.
Saturn the abdomen.
The Sun of our organism. 
The FIOR the sexual organs.

Fair horoscopes, arithmetic horoscopes are good for pythonesses and gypsies, but not for serious men, much less for Initiates, because an authentic Initiate would never occupy himself with those “jargons”.
The planets evolve, live and throb in our conscience, and all the stellar motions are registered in the authentic cosmographic map of the human organism.
The twelve zodiacal doors of the same permit us to penetrate in each one of the twelve
Zodiacal Constellations.
The stars are sustained in the cosmic conscience, and this conscience resides in our own selves, here and now. Therefore, we repeat, the stars are in our conscience, not outside, and the authentic horoscope of the human being is written in the cosmographic map of our own body.
The four occult words (Varon, Intiril, Varan, Impuril) enclose the exact forecast of the eclipse of the 11th of July of 1953. This eclipse takes place in our conscience, and its exact results can only be known by those Initiate astrologers, who speak a sacred language and know how to read in the cosmographic map.
The true astrologer should be an Alchemist of the Stellar Rays. Otherwise he could not combine the diverse substances and salts to modify the stellar rays and crystallize events in the physical world.
Only he, who knows how to read the cosmographic map of the human organism, can be an authentic astrologer.
Man began his evolution in Leo and will end his evolution in Leo. The entire evolution of man is written in the cosmographic map of his own organism.
