MANUAL OF
PRACTICAL
MAGIC
By
SAMAEL AUN WEOR

---

(ALEPH) THE MAGICIAN

Man is a ternary of body, Soul and SPIRIT.
The SPIRIT is the INNER-SELF.
The Soul is the Conscience, whose fluidic body is called the Astral Body in Occultism.
The physical body is the devil in us.
Between the INNER-SELF and the body, a mediator exists; that mediator is the Soul, the Astral.
The magician should learn to move, in his astral body, throughout the infinite.
The Soul should learn to enter and leave the body at will.
All our disciples should learn to leave the body.
All our disciples should learn to travel in the astral body.
All our disciples should penetrate their occult powers.
The four conditions needed to be a magician are the following:
To know how to suffer, how to be silent, how to abstain and how to die.
He who has developed occult powers, has power over the rays and the volcanoes in eruption.

---

(BETH) THE PRIESTESS

The woman is the athanor of Sexual Alchemy.
Man came out of Paradise through the doors of EDEN and EDEN is SEX itself.
The door of Paradise is SEX.
He who wants to enter EDEN must find the door.
The woman is the door.
Orientals talk about the awakening of the KUNDALINI.
The Kundalini is the sacred fire of the HOLY SPIRIT.
The Kundalini is the Pentecostal Fire.
The Kundalini is the Igneous Serpent of our magical powers.
The Kundalini is a very potent fire.
That very potent fire is enclosed in the Muladhara Chakra.
The Muladhara Chakra is the coccygeal church.
The Muladhara Chakra is situated in the coccyx.
The Muladhara chakra has four petals forming a cross.
This is the blazing Sword.
With this igneous sword, the disciple awakens all his powers and becomes a King and Priest of the Universe with powers over the earth, water, lire and air.
Along the Spinal Medulla there is a canal called the SUSHUMNA canal in the orient.
In this Medullar canal there is a fine nervous channel through which the Kundalini ascends.
As the Kundalini rises through the Spinal Medulla, all our occult powers awaken.
The secret to awaken the Kundalini is the following:
INTRODUCE THE VIRILE MEMBER IN THE VAGINA OF THE WOMAN AND WITHDRAW IT WITHOUT SPILLING THE SEMEN.
The restrained desire will cause our seminal liquid to rise to the head.
So our Kundalini awakens.
This is how our disciples can become Gods. (See ‘Treatise of Sexual Alchemy”, by the same author).
This exercise is done slowly.
During this sexual connection, the mantrams: “DIS”, “DAS”, ‘DOS” shall be vocalized.
One must prolong each of these letters, like this:
DIIIIIIIIIIIISSSSSSSSSSS
DAAAAAASSSSSSSSSS
DOOOOOOSSSSSSSSSS
During this exercise, a hermaphrodite Cherubim, who has the power to open for us all the chakras and convert us into Gods, is formed in the Astral plane.
This Cherubim resembles the man and the woman.
The Cherubim wears a purple robe falling to the ankles.
The Cherubim is completely hermaphrodite because he/she possesses the sexual organs of the man and the woman.
This Cherubim is formed during the moment that the couple is united sexually.
This Cherubim is engendered during the trance of Sexual Magic.
This Cherubim has all the powers of EDEN.
This Cherubim has all the powers that man and woman had before the fall.
This Cherubim has the keys of EDEN.
The man and the woman united during the trance of Sexual Magic should together order the Cherubim, at the same time, to awaken their Kundalini and to open all their chakras.
The man and the woman will give the order and the Cherubim will obey and will open all their magical powers.
Those who want to convert themselves into Gods, should never, ever spill a single drop of the Semen in their lives.
With one seminal ejaculation alone, it is enough to fail in this work.
Sexual Magic can only be practiced between husband and wife in legitimately constituted homes.

---

(GIMEL) THE EMPRESS

“In the beginning was the Verb, and the Verb was with God, and the Verb God”.
The disciple should vocalize one hour daily, to awaken his occult powers.
The mantram “CHIS” serves to awaken the power of clairvoyance; this mantram is pronounced like this:
CHIIIIIIIIIIISSSSSSSSSS
The syllable “IN” also serves to awaken the power of clairvoyance; that syllable is vocalized like this:
IIIIIIIIIIIIIINNNNNNNN
The mantram “RIS” is also used for clairvoyance.
That mantram is vocalized like this:
RIIIIIIIIIIIIISSSSSSSSSSS
The mantram “ISIS” is also a great mantram to awaken clairvoyance; that mantram is vocalized like this:
IIIIIIIISSSSSSSS…..
IIIIIIIIIISSSSSSSS….
One hour daily of vocalization, is better that reading one million books of Theosophism, Spiritism, etc.
Clairvoyance is the same imagination.
For the sage, to imagine is to see.
Whoever wants to become clairvoyant, has to reconquer his lost infancy.
The angel AROCH taught me the most powerful mantrams known in the world to awaken clairvoyance.
Whoever wants to be claivoyant must put an end to reasoning and accustom himself to see all things with the imagination.
The most powerful mantrams for clairvoyance, are the first syllables that the child begins to syllabicate during his first years.
These syllables are:
MA MA, PA PA.
On pronouncing the first syllable MA, this syllable will be vocalize in a very high and acute manner.
On vocalizing the second syllable MA, it will be vocalized in a very low manner.
The same shall be done with the syllable PA, PA.
One’s voice is raised with the first syllable of each of the words, and w then be repeated many times, lowering the note.
Master HUIRACOCHA in his work titled “Logos Mantram Magic” says the following:
“Let us not forge: life and its development in children. history repeats itself and in them is the reflection of the creation of the Cosmos as a sure orientation for our existence. They, in their trembling babbling first, pronounce ae... ae... ae... Then ma...
ma... ma... Later ba... ba... Ther first gestures remind us of the b and the m, and it is there, that we should therefore, begin INITIATION, which in the opportune moment, I shalt teach you”. (Page 46, Chapter on Language and the Word, Log Mantram Magic).
The pythonesses of Delphi received help from the God APOLLO and our disciples can invoke APOLLO during their exercises to awaken ther clairvoyance.
The pythonesses of Delphi awakened clairvoyance looking fixedly at the water for entire hours, and our disciples can do the same.
In the atoms of infancy we have the power of clairvoyance.
Those atoms are in our inner universe, and we can make them come to th surface through the syllables: MA MA, PA PA.
The frontal chakra has 96 radiations and shines between our eyebrows like a lotus flower.
This lotus flower has the Pituitary gland as its base.

CLAIRAUDIENCE

Clairaudience is the power to hear in the internal worlds.
Clairaudience is the magical ear.
Clairaudience awakens with the vowel “E”.
This vowel is combined with different letters to awaken the occult ear.
The syllable “EN” serves to develop the magical ear.
THIS SYLLABLE IS VOCALIZED LIKE THIS:
EEEEEEEEEEEEENNNNNNNNNN……….
The mantram “CHES” is very powerful to awaken the magical ear.
This mantram is vocalized like this:
CHEEEEEEEEEESSSSSSSSSSSS…..
There are some very powerful mantrams to awaken the magical ear.
These mantrams are:
AUM CHIVATUM Eeeeeeeee...
AUM is pronounced opening the mouth wide with the vowel A, rounding it out with the U, and closing it with the M.
The other syllables are pronounced prolonging the sound over each vowel.
The laryngeal chakra is located in the throat and it has 16 radiations. Its colors are marvellous. It looks like a lotus flower emerging from the Thyroid gland.
The Inner Self resides in the heart.
God is in the heart.
He who awakens the chakra of the heart acquires INTUITION.
He who awakens the chakra of the heart acquires the power to conjure the wind and the hurricanes.
He who awakens the chakra of the heart learns to study all things with the heart and he becomes wise.
This chakra awakens with the vowel “O.”
The syllable “ON” is used to awaken the chakra of the heart.
This syllable is vocalized in this manner:
OOOOOOOOOOONNNNNNNNNN
The mantram “CHOS” also serves to awaken the chakra of the heart. This mantram is vocalized in this manner.
CHOOOOOOOOOOSSSSSSSSSSSS
The prayer of the OUR FATHER is the most grandiose magical power to awaken the chakra of the heart.
To pray is to converse with God.
The OUR FATHER serves to converse with GOD.
The disciple will lie down on his bed comfortably. He will put aside from his mind all types of earthly thoughts and then very slowly, he will meditate during whole hours on each of the words and phrases of the OUR FATHER, as if trying to converse with the FATHER who is in the heavens.
During this exercise the disciple should become profoundly sleepy.
In visions of dreams, the FATHER who is in the heavens will appear to the student, and the disciple will be able to converse with him in a familiar manner.
The FATHER will be able to make the disciple see certain visions that the disciple should learn to interpret with the heart. In this way all disciples can converse with GOD.
The cardiac chakra has 12 radiations and luminous undulations.
The mantram OMNIS JAUM INTIMO serves to communicate with the INNER-SELF.
This mantram shall be vocalized mentally.
The disciple will lull himself to sleep adoring the INNER-SELF and mentally pronouncing the mantram OMNIS JAUM INTIMO.
The disciple will be able to converse with his INNER-SELF.
The INNER-SELF will appear to the disciple in visions during sleep.
The mantram to awaken INTUITION is “OM MANI PADME JUM”.
This mantram is vocalized like this:
70. “OM MASI PADME YOM”.
The vocalization is letter by letter, like this:
OOOOOOOOOMMMMMMMM
MAAAAAAAA…..SIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.
PADME YOOOOOOMMMMMMMMMM…..
Its meaning is: “Oh, my God in me!”
This mantram is vocalized adoring the INNER-SELF, rendering homage to the INNER-SELF.
The INNER-SELF is the Most High in us.
The INNER-SELF is our individual Spirit.
Ancient humanity was instinctive.
Aristotle initiated the age of reason that culminated with Immanuel Kant, the philosopher of Königsberg, and which entered old age finalizing this sign of Pisces.
I, AUN WEOR, am the Initiator of the Age of INTUITION.
It is necessary to learn to study with the heart.
The Intuitive understands with one letter alone.
The intellectual is so stupid that because of one more comma or one less comma, he loses the entire sequence of a speech.

TELEPATHY

The Solar Plexus is the center of Telepathy.
We have a true wireless station established in our organism.
The Solar Plexus picks up the mental waves that travel through space and passes them on to our brain.
This is how the thoughts of others arrive at our brain.
This is called TELEPATHY.
The Solar Plexus is developed with the vowel “U”.
The mantram “CHUS” is very powerful to develop the Solar Plexus chakra.
This mantram is pronounced like this:
CHUUUUUUUUSSSSSSSSSSS
Another very interesting exercise to awaken the Telepathic Plexus is the following:
The disciple should sit in a comfortable chair, with his sight towards the east.
The disciple should imagine that in the orient there is a great golden CROSS, that radiates blue and golden rays.
The disciple should imagine those rays entering through his Solar Plexus, to awaken him and give him life. This exercise is practiced ten minutes daily.
This exercise is always practiced in the first hours of the morning, in other words, at dawn.
The chakra of the Solar Plexus picks up solar rays and nourishes and develops the other chakras of our Astral organism with them.
He who develops this chakra acquires the great power of Telepathy.
The syllable “UN,” prolonging the sound over the letters “U” and “N,” can be vocalized during the exercise of the golden Cross, at dawn.
The Solar Plexus is our receptor antenna, and our Pineal gland is our transmitting center.
This Chakra has ten irradiations.

CLUE TO REMEMBER PAST LIVES

The clue to remembering our past lives is in the retrospective exercise.
The disciple submerged in profound meditation should carry out a retrospective recapitulation of all the events that have occurred in his lives, from the present to the past.
The disciple should try to remember all transpired events in a reverse order, beginning with the last ones until going back to the first events of his infancy.
We can remember all memories of our infancy by practicing the retrospective exercise during those instants of dozing off.
In those instants we can exert ourselves to recall the last experiences of our past reincarnation.
So, in a retrospective order, we can review our entire past and past reincarnations.
The important thing is to practice this retrospective exercise during instants of dozing.
Like this, in visions in our sleep, we shall remember all our past lives.
The pulmonary chakras permit us to remember our past lives. These chakras are developed with the vowel “A”, like this:
AAAAAAAAAAAAAA………….
The mantram “CHAS” is effective to develop the pulmonary chakras.
In moments of dozing, the Soul comes out of the physical body and travels throughout the suprasensible worlds.
We relive our past reincarnations in the internal worlds.

THE SPLENIC CHAKRA

Whoever develops the chakra of the Spleen acquires the power of commanding the creatures of water.
During the night, the Spleen chakra picks up the energies that the sun left during the day.
With these energies, the Spleen chakra transmutes the white blood cells into red blood cells.
The Spleen chakra is the center of the etheric body. The life of the sun enters our organism through there.
The letter “B” belongs to this chakra.
This chakra has 6 petals or undulations.

THE HEPATIC CHAKRA, Clues to come out in the Astral Body

Our disciples should learn to come Out in the Astral Body to visit all the WHITE
LODGES of the world.
In the GNOSTIC Church, all our disciples will be able to receive inner instruction.
The disciple who wants to progress should not confine himself.
The disciple who wants to progress has to inevitably learn to come out in the Astral
Body to transfer himself to the Gnostic Church, where he shall be able to converse personally with the CHRIST and with all the Masters of the WHITE LODGE.
The clue to come out in the Astral Body is the following:
The disciple should lull himself to sleep in his bed.
When the disciple finds himself in that state of transition, which exists between vigil and sleep, he should rise from his bed exactly the way a somnambulist does.
Before leaving the room, the disciple will jump with the intention of floating in the atmosphere.
If the disciple does not float, he gets into bed again and repeats the experiment.
However, if upon jumping, the disciple floats in the air, then tie should leave the room and fly towards the GNOSTIC CHURCH.
This is not a mental exercise.
What we are saying here should be translated into facts.
During instants of falling asleep, the disciple will rise from his bed the way the somnambulists do.
The sleep process breaks the very strong connections, which exist in the vigil slate.
The sleep process permits the soul to separate itself from the physical body.
The disciple will be able to lull himself to sleep by vocalizing the mantram
“FARAON” like this:
FAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA…..
RRRRRRRRRRAAAAAAAAAAAAA…
OOOOOOOOOONNNNNNNNNNNN…
Concentrate your whole mind on the Pyramids of Egypt.
When the disciple finds himself dozing, he should rise from his room en route to the pyramids of Egypt.
Another mantram to come out in the Astral Body is the mantram “RUSTI”.
The disciple will vocalize this mantram mentally and when he is falling asleep he should rise from his bed and leave his room en route to the GNOSTIC CHURCH.
There be will be able to converse with the CHRIST personally and receive direct instruction from all the Masters.
The mantram “TAI RE RE RE”, also serves to come out in the Astral Body.
The disciple lulls himself to sleep singing this mantram with the mind.
When the disciple is already falling asleep, he will rise from his bed and will come out of his room en route to the Gnostic Church.
Another very simple clue to come out in the Astral Body is the following:
The disciple should lull himself to sleep mentally pronouncing the syllable LA and the syllable RA.
When the disciple then feels within his brain a sweet and peaceful whistling, something similar to the brakes of compressed air or the singing of bugs, something like the sound of little flutes or flutes, the disciple should get up from his bed and head towards the GNOSTIC CHURCH.
Many disciples succeed immediately others take months and years to learn how to get out in the Astral Body.
The Astral Body is connected with the Liver.
By awakening this Liver chakra, everyone can enter and leave the physical body at will.
The important thing is for disciples to abandon laziness.
Those who have not learned how to get out in the Astral Body, it is because they are very lazy.
The atoms of laziness are a serious obstacle for the progress towards the superior worlds.
Disciples can also learn to travel with their body of flesh and bones in the “jinn” state.
The disciple will lull himself to sleep lightly and no more, then, he will rise from his bed like a somnambulis conserving sleepiness like a very precious treasure.
Before coming out of his bed, the disciple will make a small jump with the intention of floating, and if he floats in the atmosphere, it is because his body already penetrated the Astral Plane.
Now the disciple will be able to take his physical body to remote places on earth in few instants.
When CHRIST walked on the waters, he did so with his physical body in the jinn state.
To take one’s physical body, a little sleepiness and much faith is sufficient.
The letter that corresponds to the Liver chakra is the letter “G”.
The mantram FE UIN DAGJ, (the last word pronounced gutiurally), serves to awaken all the chakras of the Astral body.
The mantram “miña pica frasco”, serves to travel in the jinn state, from one place on earth to another.
The disciple gets up from his bed, like a somnambulist, pronouncing the mantram: miña pica frasco.
Some disciples learn immediately, others take entire months and years to learn.

POLY VISION

The head is a world surrounded by the brilliant light of the zodiacal belt.
The crown chakra is the “Thousand Petalled Lotus”, the Diamond Eye.
The crown chakra is the Eye of Brahma, the Eye of Dhagma.
With this chakra we shall be able to study the Akashic Records of Nature and elevate ourselves to ecstasy or Shamadi to penetrate the world of the Gods.
This chakra is awakened by practicing Sexual Magic intensely with the woman.
Every one who develops the Pineal gland becomes a terrible and powerful magician.
Whoever opens the Diamond Eye, can do marvels and prodigies like the ones done by the Divine Rabbi of Galilee on his path on earth.
This chakra has 1,000 petals.
The man who causes the Kundalini to rise to the head awakens the crown chakra.
This chakra is the seventh seal of the Apocalypse.
The man who causes the Kundalini to rise to his head, unites with the INNER-SELF and becomes a terrible and powerful God.
When the Soul unites with the INNER-SELF, man becomes an angel.
The twenty-four elders threw their crowns at the feet of the LAMB.
The chakras are all connected to the Spinal Column.
Seven centers exist on the Spinal Column.
Each of these centers is related with its corresponding chakra; those are the seven churches that the Apocalypse talks to us about.
Those are the seven seals that the Lamb opens with his flaming Sword.
Those are the seven seals that the Kundalini opens to convert us into Gods.
“And I jaw in the right hand of him that sat on the thrones a book written within and on the backside, sealed with seven seals.
And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book, and to loose the seals thereof ?” (Apocalypse, 5:1 & 2.)
And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals, and I heard, as it were the noise of thunder, one of the four beasts saying, Come and see.
And I saw, and behold a white horse: and he that sat on him had a bow; and a crown was given unto him and he went forth conquering and to conquer.
And when he had opened the second seal, I heard the second beast say, Come and see.
And there went out another horse that was red: and power was given to him that sat there on to take peace from the earth, and that they should kill one another: and there was given unto him a great sword.
And when he had opened the third seal. I heard the third beast say. Come and see. And I beheld, and lo a black horse; and he that sat on him had a pair of balances in his hand.
And I heard a voice in the midst of the four beasts say, A measure of wheat for a penny, and three measures of barley for a penny; and see thou hurt not the oil and the wine.
And when he had opened the fourth seal. I heard the voice of the fourth beast say, Come and see.
And! looked and behold a pale horse: and the name that sat on him was Death, and Hell followed with him. And power was given Unto them over the fourth part of the earth, to kill with a sword, and with hunger, and with death, and with the beasts of the earth.
And when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the word of God, and for the testimony, which they held:
And they cried with a loud voice, saying, flow long. O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?
And white robes were given unto every one of them; and it was said unto them, that they should rest yet for a little season, until their fellow servants also and their brethren, that should be killed as they were, should be fulfilled.
And I beheld when he had opened the sixth seal, an, lo, there was a great earthquake; and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair; and the moon became as blood;
And the stars of heaven fell unto the earth, even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs, when she is shaken of a mighty wind.
And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together; and every mountain and island were moved out of their places.
And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich men, and every bondman, and every free man, hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains;
And said to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us, and hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb:
For the great day of his wrath is come; and who shall be able to stand?
(Apocalypse, chapter 6.)
And when he had opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven about the space of half an hour.
And I saw the seven angels, which stood before God; and to them were given seven trumpets.
And another angel came and stood at the altar, having a golden censer and there was given unto him much incense, that he should offer it with the prayers of all saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne.
And the smoke of the incense, which came with the prayers of the saints, ascended up before God out of the angers hand.
And the angel took the censer, and filled it with fire of the altar, and cast it into the earth: and there were voices, and thundering and lightning and an earthquake
(Apoca1YPS 8: 1 - 5.)

---

(DALETH) THE EMPEROR

The esoteric ages are the following
First INITIATION of Lesser Mysteries, ten years old.
Second INITIATION, twenty years old.
Third INITIATION, thirty years old.
Fourth INITIATION, forty years old.
Fifth INITIATION fifty years old.
Sixth 1N1TIAT sixty years old.
Seventh INITIATION, seventy years old.
Eight INITIATION, eighty years old.
Ninth INITIATION, ninety years old.

GREATER MYSTERIES

First INITIATION one hundred years old.
Second INITIATION, two hundred years old.
Third INITIATION, three hundred years old.
Fourth INITIATION, four hundred years old.
Filth INITIATION five hundred years old.
Sixth INITIATION, six hundred years old.
Seventh INITIATION, seven hundred years old.
Eighth INITIATION, eight hundred years old.
Ninth INITIATION, nine hundred years old.
Ages of morn than nine hundred years are Logoic ages.
To reach absolute liberation, one needs to possess 300,000 (three hundred thousand) esoteric years of age. (Esoteric ages are not chronological time).
INITIATION is your life itself.
INITIATION is profoundly internal.
INITIATION is profoundly individual.

THE DIVINE TRIAD

The INNER-SELF has two Twin Souls: the Divine and the Human.
At one hundred years of esoteric age, the Divine Soul fuses with the INNER-SELF, and so a new Master is born in the internal worlds.
At five hundred years of esoteric age, the Soul also fuses with the INNER-SELF.
That is how a new MAHATMA is born in the internal worlds.

HUMAN BODHISATTVAS

When a Master of Greater Mysteries wants to reincarnate, he sends ahead his Human
Soul, to reincarnate and prepare himself.
When that Human Soul is already prepared, the Master then reincarnates.
He enters in his Human Soul.
When the Bodhisattva lets himself fall, the Master cannot reincarnate.
The Bodhisattva who lets himself fall, must later reincarnate under more difficult conditions.
If the Bodhisattva repeats his errors, then the Lords of Karma send him to reincarnate in much more terrible and painful conditions each time.
So arrives the moment in which the Master can reincarnate in the Bodhisattva.
The Master is formed by ATMAN-BUDDHI.
ATMAN is the INNER-SELF.
BUDDHI is the DIVINE SOUL, in other words, the Divine Conscience of the INNER-SELF.

DYANIS BODHISATTVAS

When a LOGOS wants to redeem a world, he emanates from himself a celestial prototype, formed by ATMAN-BUDDHI.
The LOGOS is the SEPHIROTHIC CROWN.
The LOGOS is the individual Ray, from whom the INNER-SELF himself emanates.
That ray is the Most Holy Trinity in us.
That ray is triune.
Therefore, every LOGOS is triune.
THE FATHER is KETHER, the Ancient of the days.
The Son is the COSMIC CHRIST in us.
The HOLY SPIRIT is the Divine MOTHER in us.
The MOTHER carries a lamp in her hand.
That lamp is the INNER-SELF, who burns within our heart.
The INNER-SELF has two Souls, one Divine and the other Human.
When a LOGOS wants to come to the World, he emanates from himself his INNER-SELF.
The INNER-SELF then, together with the Divine Soul, is the DHYANI
BODHISATVA of a LOGOS.
The DHYANI BODHISAUVAS of the LOGOS who follow the long and bitter Path of Duty, evolve like any man among men when they reincarnate in a world.
When the DHYANI is prepared, then his real LOGOIC BEING incarnates in him to save the world.

---

(HE) THE HIERARCH

A great Goddess exists, and she is the Virgin of the Sea.
The Virgin of the Sea is ISIS, Adonia, Astarte, Mary.
Nature is not unconscious.
Nature is a generous and austere Mother.
When we invoke the great MOTHER in the internal worlds, Nature answers us with a terrifying metallic sound, that causes the entire Universe to shake.
Really, Nature is the body of a Guru-Deva.
That Guru-Deva has been adored in all Religions.
That Guru-Deva has been named ISIS, Adonia, Isoberta, Mary, Maya, Persephone, etc.
When the CHRIST needed to reincarnate to save the World, then that Guru-Deva was born in Mount Cannel and was baptized with the name of Mary, the Virgin of Carmen.
That is the Virgin of the Sea, the blessed Goddess MOTHER of the World.
Whoever wants to be a magician and have magical powers, has to become a disciple of the Virgin of the Sea.
The peeling sphinx that we see in the desert of Egypt is the image of an intelligent creature that exists in the internal worlds.
That creature is the elemental Sphinx of Nature.
The elemental Sphinx of Nature has all the wisdom of the elemental magic of Nature.
That Sphinx is the elemental Intercessor of the blessed Goddess MOTHER of the world.
The sphinx obeys all the orders of the Virgin of the Sea.
All the powers of the earth come from the sea.
Whoever wants to be a powerful magician has to become a disciple of the Virgin of the Sea.
Whoever wants to become a disciple of the Virgin of the Sea has to first learn to come out in the Astral body.
He who invokes the Virgin of the Sea in the internal worlds will receive from her all her teachings.
One must personally ask the Virgin of the Sea for all kinds of magical powers.
There are magicians who carry the image of the Virgin of Carmen tattooed over their heart to stop enemy bullets from causing them harm.
We need to learn to come out in the Astral body to talk with the Virgin of the Sea.

---

(VAU) THE LOVER, Numbers

We have entered the empire of High Magic.
We have entered the laboratory of High Magic.
We have entered the world of Will and Love.
To enter the amphitheatre of Cosmic science, we need to steal the fire from the devil.
The lover should steal the light from the darkness.
We need to practice Sexual Magic intensely with the woman.
We need to reconquer the blazing sword of EDEN.
To invoke the Gods, we need to know the mathematical numbers of the stars.
Symbols are the clothes of numbers.
Numbers are the living entities of the internal worlds.
Planetary numbers produce immediate terrible results.
One can work at a distance with the stars.
Mathematical numbers act on the physical world in a terrible manner.
These numbers should be written on seven different tables.
When one is going to perform sidereal magic, one draws a circle on the ground, of one and a half metres in diameter, and places the sign of the pentagram with the two inferior vertices towards the outside of the precinct, and the superior vertex inwards.
In the center of the Circle one places the table with the number of the corresponding planet.
Thus attend all the Gods of the planet with which one will work.
Before beginning every magical ceremony with the stars, one needs to conjure the earth, fire, water and the air with their corresponding Exorcisms.

EXORCISM OF WATER

“Fiat firmamentum in medio aquarum et separet aquas ab aquis, quae superius sicut quae inferius, et quae inferius sicut quae superius, ad perpetranda miracula rei unius.
Sol ejus patcr est, luna mater et ventus hanc gestavit in utero suo, ascendit a terra ad coelum et rursus a chelo in terram descendit. Exorciso te, creatura aquae, Ut sis mihi speculum die vivi in operibus ejus, et fons vitae, et abllutio pecatorum. AMEN.”

EXORCISM OF FIRE

“One exorcises the fire by throwing into it, salt, incense, white resin, camphor and sulphur, pronouncing three times the three names of the Genii of fire:
MICHAEL, King of the Sun and of the Ray
SAMAEL, King of the Volcanoes
ANAEL, Prince of the Astral Light.”

EXORCISM OF AIR

One exorcises the air by blowing towards the four cardinal points, and saying:
“Spiritus Del ferebatur super aquas, et inspiravit in faciem hominis spiraculum vitae. Sit
Michael dux meus, et Sabtabiel servus meus, in liice et per lucem.
Fiat verbum halitus meus; et imperabo Spiritibus, aeris hujus, et refrenabo equos solis voluntate cordis mei, et cogitatione mentis meae ci nutu oculi dextri.
Exorciso igitur te, creatura aeris, per Pentagrammaton, et in nomine Tetragrammaton, in quibus sunt voluntas firma et fides recta. AMEN. Sela, fiat. So be it.”

EXORCISM OF THE EARTH

The earth is exorcised by sprinkling water, by breath and fire, with the proper perfumes of the day, and one says the prayer of the GNOMES.

PRAYER OF THE GNOMES

“King invisible, Who, taking the earth as a support, didst furrow the abysses to fill them with Thine omnipotence; Thou Whose name both shake the vaults of the world,
Thou Who causest the seven metals to flow through the veins of the rock, monarch of the seven lights, rewarder of the subterranean toilers, lead us unto the desirable air and to the realm of splendour. We watch and we work unremittingly, we seek and we hope, by the twelve stones of the holy City, by the hidden talismans, by the pole of loadstone, which passes through the centre of the world! Saviour, Saviour, Saviour, have pity on those who suffer, expand our hearts, detach and elevate our minds, enlarge our entire being! O stability and motion! O day clothed with night! O darkness veiled by splendour!
O master Who never keepest back the wages of Thy labourers! O silver whiteness! O golden splendour! O crown of living and melodious diamonds! Thou Who wearest the heaven on Thy finger like a sapphire ring. Thou Who concealest under earth, in the stone kingdom, the marvellous seed of stars, live, reign, be the eternal dispenser of the wealth whereof Thou hast made us the wardens! AMEN.”

THE MAGICAL SQUARES

Square of the MOON: Constant: 369. Total: 3,321.

37  78  29  70  21  62  13  54  5 
6   38  79  30  71  22  63  14  46
47  7   39  80  31  72  23  55  15
16  48  8   40  81  32  64  24  56
57  17  49  9   41  73  33  65  25
26  58  18  50  1   42  74  34  66
67  27  59  10  51  2   43  75  35
36  68  19  60  11  52  3   44  76
77  28  69  20  61  12  53  4   45

Square of MERCURY: Constant: 260. Total 2,080.

8   58  59  5   4   62  63  1 
49  15  14  52  53  11  10  56
41  23  22  44  45  19  18  48
32  34  35  29  28  38  39  25
40  26  27  37  36  30  31  33
17  47  46  20  21  43  42  24
9   55  54  12  13  51  50  16
64  2   3   61  60  6   7   57

Square of VENUS: Constant: 175. Total: 1,225

22  47  16  41  10  35  4 
5   23  48  17  42  11  29
30  6   24  49  18  36  12
13  31  7   25  43  19  37
38  14  32  1   26  44  20
21  39  8   33  2   27  45
46  15  40  9   34  3   28

Square of the SUN: Constant: 111. Total: 666.

6   32  3   34  35  1 
7   11  27  28  8   30
19  14  16  15  23  24
18  20  22  21  17  13
25  29  10  9   26  12
36  5   33  4   2   31

Square of MARS: Constant: 65. Total: 325

11  24  7   20  3 
4   12  25  8   16
17  5   13  21  9 
10  18  1   14  22
23  6   19  2   15

Square of JUPITER: Constant: 34. Total: 136.

4   14  15  1 
9   7   6   12
5   11  10  8 
16  2   3   13

Square of SATURN: Constant: 15. Total: 45.

4  9  2
3  5  7
8  1  6

THE ART OF WORKING WITH THE STARS

The disciple will sit comfortably in a chair and will then concentrate his Mind on his INNER-SELF, saying:
“You who art myself, my true BEING.
Leave my body, enter the doors of the heart temple of (here one names the planet which one will work with in those instants).”
Then the words, JACHIN, BOHAZ are pronounced.
Next, the Magician asks the Sidereal Genie with whom one is working, for the desired service: love, journeys, business, etc.
The magician will clamor several times asking for: CHORUS, CHORUS, CHORUS; and the angels will work, but according to the Law.
The planetary LOGOS will send choruses of angels to work with the magician, to dominate and overcome.
This is how one works with the ray of the stars. This is how our disciples can solve their particular problems.
GABRIEL is the angel of the MOON.
RAPHAEL is the angel of MERCURY.
URIEL is the angel of VENUS.
MICHAEL is the angel of the SUN.
SAMAEL is the angel of MARS.
ZACIIARIEL is the angel of JUPITER.
ORIFIEL is the angel of SATURN.

CHARACTERISTICS OF THE PLANETS

THE MOON. Journeys, manual arts, novelists, liquid-related businesses, matters related with maternity, agriculture, illnesses of the stomach and of the brain, etc.
MERCURY. Journalism, intellectualism, businesses, quarrels, journeys and all types of matters related with the Mind.
VENUS. Loves, marriages, women, perfumes, music, plastic arts, dramatic arts, poetry.
THE SUN. High dignitaries, mystical matters, social position, high Hierarchs, etc.
MARS. Wars, military matters, police matters, quarrels, leaders, works related with the dollar bill and the coin, big businesses, matters related with judges, and with tribunals, etc.
JUPITER. High civil and ecclesiastic military persons, matters related with the dollar bill and the coin, big businesses, matters related with judges and with tribunals, etc.
SATURN. Matters related with lands, matters related to mines, funerary matters, angels of death, etc.
The magician should learn to handle the sparkle of the stars, because the angels of the stars are the absolute governors of the world. (See ZODIACAL COURSE, by the same author.)

CHARACTERISTICS OF THE TWELVE ZODIACAL SIGNS

ARIES: March 21st to April 19th

The persons born under this sign are impulsive and choleric; they become irritated with facility.
These persons are capable of starting off new corporations and taking them to a good end.
The children of ARIES triumph in the military and are very energetic and dynamic.
The metal of this sign is iron.
Those born in Aries are bad lucked in love because they end up fighting.

TAURUS: April 20th to May 20th

Taurines are gluttons; they love what is beautiful and gorgeous.
Taurines love much and suffer much because they go through great amorous deceptions.
When Taurines become furious, they are real furious bulls.
Taurines are like the ox: hardworking and tenacious.

GEMINI: May 21st to June 21st

The natives of Gemini are of strict will, possess great courage, are versatile and like to travel a lot. Their lives are a mixture of successes and failures. At times they live in comfort and at times they have to endure much misery.
They are very intelligent and become irritated easily.
The defect of those born under Gemini is that of wanting to solve all things with their head; they always want to silence the wise voice of the heart and then they create problems of all kinds for themselves.

CANCER: June 22nd to July 22nd

Dressmaking, tailoring, etc.
The natives of Cancer are tenacious, and like the crab, they prefer to lose a leg than to lose a prey.
The natives of Cancer triumph on long trips.
On the first quarter moon and on full Moon they can carry out their enterprises, which culminate with good success.
The character of the natives of Cancer varies according to the changes of the Moon.
The natives of Cancer are romantic and sentimental but when they get angry, their anger is terrible.

LEO: July 23rd to August 22nd

The sign of LEO governs INTUITION.
We should free our Mind from all types of schools, theories, political parties, concepts, desires, emotions, passions, etc.
From intellectualism without spirituality, rascals come forth.
Rascals wander through elegant salons, drink liquors of all types and the whole world applauds them and admires them.
Rascals are called doctors, graduates, intellectuals, etc.
Rascals have taken over the world, and all the governments of the earth have fallen into their hands.
Rascals are the pedantic intellectuals of the age.
Rascals have always been the enemies of the sages.
Our disciples should abandon all types of knavery.
Our disciples should cultivate INTUITION, which resides in the heart.
INTUITION is direct perception of the truth, without the depressing process of reasoning and of opinions.
The natives of Leo are like the lion; kind and courageous.
The natives of Leo are mystics and like to command.
The natives of Leo suffer a lot.
The natives of Leo sometimes suffer accidents in their arms or hands.
The natives of Leo are magnanimous and kind.
The natives of Leo become irritated easily and get angry easily.

VIRGO: August 23rd to September 22nd

The natives of Virgo and of Scorpio are together the marvellous Eden of which the Bible talks to us about
I have written this book precisely so that my disciples can become Omnipotent and powerful Gods.
I want all my disciples to end all their human weaknesses and transform themselves into Gods and Priests of the Universe.
Virgo is the sign of the Celestial Virgin.
Virgo is the virginal womb of Divine Nature.
When we were elementals we had the seven Serpents on the rod.
When we came out of Eden our seven Serpents fell.
Our disciples should raise the seven Serpents on the rod so that they can enter Eden and transform themselves into Gods of fire.
Virgo is the womb of Mother Nature.
The natives of Virgo unfortunately fall into the vicious circle of reasonings and because of this they harm themselves.
The natives of Virgo are unfortunate in love.
The natives of Virgo fall into the aberrations of intellectualism and because of this do not progress.
If the natives of Virgo want to progress they should be simple, they should end all reasonings and have the mind of innocent children.

LIBRA: September 23rd to October 23rd

Before the scale existed, the face did not see the face.
Everything that is, everything that was and everything that will be is weighed on the scale.
All the Kings that entered the ABSOLUTE were weighed on the scale.
The scale is the dress of the Ancient of the Days; the scale does not become entangled in anything; the scale is the garb of the ABSOLUTE.
Justice and mercy united, shine in the world of AZILUTH.
The natives of Libra always have equilibrium in Love and their lives are as unstable as the movements of the pans of the scale.
The natives of Libra suffer in love.
The natives of Libra have many aptitudes and great ability to earn their daily bread.
The sword of Cosmic Justice is beyond good and evil.

SCORPIO: October 24th to November 22nd

The human BEING has seven bodies; each body has its Spinal Medulla and its Serpent. (See Zodiacal Course by he same author).

The seven bodies of man are the following:

PHYSICAL BODY.
VITAL or ETHERIC BODY.
ASTRAL BODY or OF DESIRES.
MENTAL BODY.
BODY OF WILL.
BODY OF THE CONSCIENCE.
BODY OF THE INNER SELF.

Each body has its sacred Serpent.
We have seven Serpents: two groups of three, with the sublime coronation of the seventh tongue of fire, which unites us with the ONE, with the LAW, with the FATHER.
Practicing Sexual Magic intensely with the female, we raise the seven Serpents on the rod and we transform ourselves into omnipotent Gods of the Universe with powers over the four elements: earth, water, 1u and air.
Scorpio rules the sexual organs and the redemption of man is in the sexual organs.
The natives of Scorpio possess terrible magical powers.
The natives of Scorpio are irritable, rancorous and vindictive.
However dominating anger, vengeance and rancor the natives of Scorpios can transform themselves into powerful and terrible white magicians.
Scorpios arc completely chaste or completely fornicating.
The natives of Scorpio have a terrible will.
The clue to transform oneself into a magician is to INTRODUCE THE MEMBER
INTO THE VAGINA OF THE WOMAN AND WITHDRAW IT WITHOUT SPILLING THE SEMEN.
He who becomes accustomed to this exercise and never ejaculates his semen in his life will transform himself into a very terrible and powerful God.

SAGITTARIUS: November 23rd to December 21st

The natives of Sagittarius are extremely passionate.
The natives of Sagittarius become angry easily and forgive easily.
The natives of Sagittarius are magnanimous and generous.
The natives of Sagittarius always love adventures and runins; everything that is grandiose and gigantic attracts them.
The natives of Sagittarius are tenacious and contenders; when people think that they have overcome them, they reappear on the battlefield of life, full of courage and valor.
The natives of Sagittarius have a great disposition for philosophy.

CAPRICORN: December 22nd to January 19th

The natives of Capricorn are pessimistic and melancholic.
The natives of Capricorn have great aptitudes for earning their daily bread.
The natives of Capricorn arc hardworking and industrious, and have a high sense of their own moral responsibility.
A Judas who betrays them is never lacking in the course of their lives.
Every Capricorn has to go through a tragedy in love.., a terrible betrayal of love.

AQUARIUS: January 20th to February 18th

The natives of Aquarius are of strict will and possess a formidable intuition.
The natives of Aquarius are friends of independence and dearly love polemics and philosophical discussions.
The great leaders of Aquarius are the revolutionaries of the era.
Aquarians have a great disposition for all studies of occult wisdom.

PISCES: February 19th to March 20th

Pisceans are of a will that is stronger than steel.
Pisceans are intuitive and profoundly sentimental.
All Pisceans have to go through two homes or two marriages in the course of their lives.
Pisceans are extremely sensitive and anything impresses them easily.
At times, the natives of Pisces are profoundly melancholic.
Although they live in everything, the natives of Pisces are separated from all the vanities of the world.
The Piscean has a disposition for two jobs, two different dispositions.
From within the sea of Pisces comes forth the Star of the Magicians.
From the sea of Pisces come forth all the Messiahs.
All the events of the life of the Piscean repeat themselves.
The good is repeated for them, and the bad is also repeated.
When good luck comes to them, it comes from all sides, and when bad luck comes, it comes from all sides.

---

(ZAIN) THE CHARIOT OF WAR

All Christian and Neo-Christian religions: Protestants, Catholics. Adventists, etc. study the BIBLE literally.
All those sects study the prophecies in an absolutely intellectual and literal manner.
We, the Gnostics, like to converse personally, face to face with the angels for them to explain the prophecies to us.
We are completely practical and we know how to talk with the angels and the prophets.
Whoever wants to be a magician must obtain the sword.
The sword is the KUNDALINI.
The sword is the Fire of the HOLY SPIRIT.
We gain nothing with filling our heads with theories.
We gain nothing with interpreting the BIBLE literally as is done by the Adventists,
Protestants, Presbyterians, etc.
The best thing is to learn to talk with the angels and the prophets.
Only like this do we tread on sure paths.
We should liberate the Mind from all kinds of desires, emotions, reasonings, intellectualism, theories, vanities, etc.
It is better to love a good woman and practice Sexual Magic with her every day, than to be wasting time with polemics, intellectualism and foolishness.
Thus we acquire the sword of the KUNDALINI and we awaken all our magical powers, to enter through the doors of the triumphant city.
The Mind is the donkey that we must ride to enter the celestial Jerusalem on Palm Sunday.
The Mind is the den of desire.
When the Mind assaults us with useless representations, when the Mind ambushes us with its low passions, let us talk to the Mind like this:
Mind, remove from me those desires; Mind, remove from me those passions, I do not accept them from you, you are my slave and I am your Lord, until the end of time.

---

(CHETH) JUSTICE

When an inferior Law is transcended by a superior Law, a superior Law wasbes away an inferior Law.
The Lion of the Law is combated with the scale.
Do good deeds so that you can pay back your debts.
Our disciples should learn to travel in the Astral body.
Our disciples should learn to go in the Astral body to the offices of the Lards of Karma.
Our disciples should learn to manage their businesses (the businesses of Karma), personally.
There are forty-two Judges of Karma.
The lords of Karma grant credit to whoever asks for it, but all credit has to be paid working in the great work of the FATHER.
When our disciples want to ask for help from the Lords of Karma they paint a Star of six points on the ground, they open their anus in the shape of a scale.
And they move their arms in the shape of a scale, up and down, keeping the Mind concentrated on ANUBIS, who is the Chief of the Lords of Karma.
Then we can menially ask the Lords of Karma the desired service.
On moving the arms in the shape of a scale, we vocalize the syllables:
NI, NE, NO, NU, NA.
In this manner we ask for help from the Lords of Karma in moments of danger or need.
However I tell thee that it is better to travel in the Astral body to the offices of Karma to speak personally with the Judges of the Law.

---

(TETH) THE HERMIT

INITIATION is life itself.
All the Theosophist and Rosicrucian writers have not done anything but falsify the truth about INITIATION.
In all the Theosophist and Rosicrucian works we see countless tales that have nothing to do with the legitimate INI11ATION.
All those fantastic comic strips of the Theosophists and Rosicrucians have only served to falsify the Mind of the students.
The reality is that INITIATION is life itself.
The INNER SELF is the one who receives the INITIATIONS.
The INNER SELF attends festivals in the temples to receive the INITIATIONS.
When the disciple does not have his powers developed he is not even aware that he has received the INITIATION.
The powers of INITIATION are powers of the INNER SELF,
However, if the personality does not have these powers developed, the disciple does not become aware that he possesses initiatics powers.
In this manner, INITIATION has nothing to do with any of those fantastic tales that are so plentiful in the books of Theosophism and Rosicrucianism.
Powers are payments that the LOGOS gives to man, when the disciple has sacrificed himself for Humanity.
He to whom nothing is owed, nothing is paid.
INITIATIONS are payments that the Logos makes to man, when the disciple has sacrificed himself for Humanity.
Those who only concern themselves with their own Spiritual progress and do not work for others do not get absolutely anything.
He who wants to progress has to sacrifice himself for others.
Those who live telling others the quantity of INITIATIONS that they possess, are committing a grave mistake because the esoteric ages are something very individual and very sacred.
In this manner, INITIATION is life itself, intensely lived, with rectitude and with love.

---

(IOD) THE WHEEL OF FORTUNE

The Ten Sephiroths

Man is made up of ten principles:
Man is KETHER, the Ancient of Days.
The second is CHOKMAH, the COSMIC CHRIST in us.
The Third is BINAH, the MOTHER, the HOLY SPIRIT in us.
The fourth is CHESED, the INNER SELF.
CHESED is a precious lamp that the MOTHER carries in her hand.
The fifth is GEBURAH our Spiritual Soul, our Superlative Conscience, (the BUDDHI)
The sixth is our Human Soul, TIPHERETH.
The seventh is NETZACH, the Mental Body.
The eighth is HOD, the Astral Body.
The ninth is JESOD, the Etheric Body.
The tenth is MALKUTH, the Physical Body.
Moses succeeded in incarnating in himself BINAH, but he did not go further.
Happy are those who succeed in incarnating in themselves the COSMIC-CHRIST (CHOKMAH).
Still happier are those who incarnate in themselves their own Ancient of Days the Kindness of Kindnesses, the Supreme Absolute I.
On the mount of ORAB, the MOTHER appeared to Moses among the burning flame of the bramble, he fell to the ground and his MOTHER BINAH, ADONAHI-JEHOVI, entered into HIM...
In this way, Moses was Illuminated.
The ten Sephiroths are atomic.
In the body of the ANCIENT OF DAYS, the ten Sephiroths shine like precious stones, when we have arrived at three thousand esoteric years.
Esoteric ages are esoteric time.
Esoteric time is sacred. It is states of conscience.
Esoteric time has nothing to do with profane chronological time.
The Sephiroths form the body of ADAM-KADMON.
When man is self realized in depth, he enters the kingdom of ADAM KADMON.
In the kingdom of ADAM-KADMON the end is absorbed into the ABSOLUTE where life shines free from its movement.

SEPHIROTHS |  KABBALISTIC NAME | CHRISTIAN NAME | ATTRIBUTES  | BODIES       
-----------+-------------------+----------------+-------------+----------------
Chokmah    |Ophanim            |Cherubims       |Wisdom       |The Son      
Binah      |Aralim             |Thrones         |Intelligence |Holy Spirit  
Chesed     |Hasmalim           |Dominions       |Love         |Inner Self   
Geburah    |Seraphim           |Powers          |Justice      |Divine Soul  
Tiphereth  |Malachim           |Virtues         |Beauty       |Human Soul   
Netzach    |Elohim             |Principalities  |Victory      |Mental Body  
Hod        |Beni Elohim        |Archangels      |Splendour    |Astral Body  
Jesod      |Cherubim           |Angels          |Foundation   |Vital Body   
Malchut    |Ischim             |Initiates       |Kingdom      |Phisical Body

---

(KHAPH) THE FORCE OF PERSUASION

Chains

The most powerful chains are carried out in groups of three persons.
The number three is the GREAT ARCANE.
When a man and a woman unite, something is created.
FATHER, MOTHER, SON.
FATHER, SON, HOLY SPIRIT.
ISIS, OSIRIS, HORUS.
The Mystery of the TRINITY shines in all the religious Theogonies.
In our rituals three candles are lit.
The number three is totally creative.
The magical effect of chains in groups of three is terrible.
In every magical ceremony the four elements of Nature have to 1e conjured. (See the CONJURATION OF THE FOUR in chapter VI).
The kingdom of the Sylphs is in the Orient and its chief is Paralda.
The kingdom of the Undines is in the West, and its chief Is Varuna.
The kingdom of the Gnomes is in the North and its chief is (GOB and KITICHI)
The kingdom of the Salamanders is in the South and its chief is DJIN and AGNI.
The Sylphs are the Spirits of air.
The Undines are Spirits of water.
The Gnomes are the elementals of earth.
The salamanders are the elemental Spirits of fire.
When the operator is conjuring the creatures of fire, he will direct himself to the South; when he is conjuring those of air, he will direct himself to the east; when he is conjuring the creatures of earth, he will direct himself to the North, when he is conjuring the creatures of water he will direct himself to the West.
The Star of five points, before which the columns of angels and demons tremble, should be painted on the ground with charcoal.
The superior vertex of the Star will remain pointing inside the precinct, and the two inferior angles of the star pointing outside the precinct.
A star of six points can also be painted in the center of the circle, to make the elementals obey.
The Hebrew letter ALEPH can replace the Star of live points and the Star of six points. (This letter is drawn at the heading of the first chapter)
The creatures of air are commanded with the feather of a bird.
The creatures of water are conjured with the goblet in hand.
The creatures of earth are conjured with the staff or cane in hand.
The creatures of lire are conjured with the sword.

---

(LAMED) THE APOSTOLATE

The Athanor

The Alchemist needs an Athanor, to work in the great work.
The Athanor is the woman.
All the beauty of Nature is synthesized in the woman.
In the Woman is synthesized all the beauties of the Universe.
The woman is called to fulfill a gigantic mission in the future.
The woman is called to be the queen of Nature.
He who warns to transform himself into an infallible God has to adore the woman.
He who wants to transform himself into a majesty of die starstudded skies of Urania has to be willing up to the last drop of his blood for his wife.
I consider it impossible to realize oneself without the woman.
ADAM and EVE come out of the EARTHLY PARADISE alone.
Man and woman united, we have shared the bitter bread of exile.
Man and woman united, we have not been able to stop loving each other.
The woman is adorable.
She rocked us in our cradle and blessed us with blessings of above and below, with blessings from the breast and the womb.
The woman lulled us in the cradle and fed us with the breast of the blessed MOTHER
Goddess of the World.
The Woman is the blessed Goddess that has the power to transform us into ineffable Gods.
GOD shines over the perfect couple.
The NITROGEN of alchemy is the SACRED FIRE OF THE KUNDALINI.
This NITROGEN is only gotten working intensely with the MERCURY of the secret philosophy.
It is impossible to be an alchemist if one does not work with the PHILOSOPHER’S STONE.
This blessed Stone has four names.
NITROGEN, INRI, ADAM, EVE.
This venerable, semi-solid, semi-liquid matter is our own Christonic Semen.
The Athanor of Alchemy is the magnificent instrument that we possess to work with the NITROGEN.
One has to transmute lead into gold.
One has to transmute the lead of our personality into the pure gold of the Spirit.
One has to engender the Sun King crowned with the red Diadem.
This Sun King is engendered within our ownselves practicing Sexual Magic intensely with the woman.
The woman transforms us into ineffable Gods.
The woman is the Athanor of ALCHEMY.

---

(MEM) DEATH

The Art of Speaking with the Dead

One can speak with the disembodied.
The dead live in the sphere of JET ZIRAH.
The dead live in the world of NOGAH (Astral World).
The disciples should learn to leave and enter their body at will.
In the world of NOGAH we can invoke the dead to speak to them personally.
The defunct who have been fornicators are cold and tenebrous and live in the world of ASSIATH, filled with cold and darkness.
The disciples who have been chaste and who have awakened Kundalini alter death are full of youth and fire.
The angels are burning flames.
The angels are burning children, full of light and beauty.
In the world of NOGAH, we can speak with the dead personally.
The thirteenth hour is death and resurrection.
When we make some petition, many times the angels answer us showing us the clock.
The disciple should notice the hour of the clock.
That is the clock of destiny.
In the time is the answer:

THE TWELVE HOURS OF APOLLONIUS

First hour of Apollonius: Transcendental study of Occultism.
Second hour of Apollonius: The abysses of fire; the Astral virtues form a circle through the Dragons and lire.
Third hour of Apollonius: The Serpents, dogs and fire.
Fourth hour of Apollonius: The Neophyte wanders at night among the sepulchres, experimenting the horror of visions, he will surrender himself to Magic and Goethia.
Fifth hour of Apollonius: The superior waters of heaven.
Sixth hour of Apollonius: Here it is necessary to remain quiet, immobile; due to fear.
Seventh hour of Apollonius: Fire comforts the animated beings and if any priest, a sufficiently purified man, steals it and then projects it, if he mixes it with holy oil and consecrates it, he will be able to cure all illnesses just by applying it to the affected part.
Eighth hour of Apollonius: The Astral virtues of the elements, of the seeds of every genus.
Ninth hour of Apollonius: Here nothing has finished as yet. The INITIATE increases his perception until he exceeds the limits of the Solar System, beyond the Zodiac. He arrives at the threshold of the infinite. He reaches the limits of the intelligible world. The divine light is revealed and with it appears new fears and dangers.
Tenth hour of Apollonius: The doors of heaven open and man comes out of his lethargy.
Eleventh hour of Apollonius: The angels, the cherubims, and the seraphims fly with the murmuring of wings; there is rejoicing in the sky, the earth and sun which surges from ADAM, awaken.
Twelfth hour of Apollonius: The cohorts of fire calm down.

THE NUMBER THIRTEEN

There exists a thirteenth hour which is the one of Liberation.
He who passes through the thirteen doors of Mercy transforms himself into an ineffable God of splendid beauty.
The Zodiac is made up of the twelve doors of Mercy.
The thirteenth door is that of LIBERATION.
One has to die to live.
One has to die and resurrect.

---

(NUN) TEMPERANCE

The Elixir of Long Life

When the Divine Soul is united with the INNER SELF, there is born in the internal worlds a new Master of greater Mysteries.
When to this union of the INNER SELF with the Divine Soul is added the Human
Soul, then a MAHATMA is born.
MAHATMA means GREAT SOUL.
These are the Souls of Diamond.
This realization is obtained at the age of five hundred esoteric years. (Fifth
INITIATION of Greater Mysteries).
The Master who renounces NIRVANA because of love for Humanity is confirmed three times honored.
The Master who renounces NIRVANA to stay on the physical plane has to ask for the ELIXIR OF LONG LIFE.
The ELIXIR OF LONG LIFE is a gas and it is a liquid.
This electro-positive and electro-negative gas has an immaculate white color.
This gas remains deposited in our vital depth.
With this gas we can prolong our life and live with a body of flesh and bone during trillions of years.
The yellow liquid etherizes our physical body.
The physical body of the Master is absorbed little by little within the etheric body and in this way is made indestructible.
The Master ZANONI lived during millions of years with his physical body.
Count St. Germain actually lives with his same physical body that he used during the 17th , 18th and 19th centuries in Europe.
We, the Gnostics, can live millions of years without death overcoming us.
With this science we can become omnipotent and powerful.
GNOSIS is for men who want to become GODS.

---

(SAMECH) BAPHOMET

Black Magic

In the world of ASSIAH exist millions of black Lodges.
The most dangerous black magicians of the Universe exist in the Menial world.
Every occultist that recommends seminal ejaculation is a black magician.
Every fornicator is a black magician.
Every association of fornicators forms a black Lodge.
Our disciples should learn to conjure the tenebrous ones to make them flee terrorized.
The angel AROCH taught me a conjuration against the tenebrous ones which reads like this:
BELILIN, BELILIN, BELILIN, Amphora of salvation;
I would like to be near you;
Materialism has no power near me,
BELILIN, BELILIN, BELILIN. (This is sung).
Solomon the Sage left us two very powerful conjurations to combat demons. Let us take a look:

CONJURATION OF THE FOUR

“Caput mortum, imperet tibi dominus per vivum et devotum serpentem !
Cherub, imperet tibi Dominus per Adam Jot Cha Vah !
Aquila errans, imperet tibi Dominus per alas tauri !
Serpens, imperet tibi Dominus Tetragrammaton, per Angelum et Leonem !
Michael, Gabriel, Raphael, Anael !
Fluat udor per Spiritum Elohim
Manet in terra per Adam Jot-Chavah !
Fiat firmamentum per Iahuvehu-Sabaoth !
Fiat judicium per ignem in virtute Michael !
Angel of the blind eyes, obey, or pass away with this holy water !
Work Winged Bull, or revert to the earth, unless thou wilt that I should pierce thee with this sword !
Chained Eagle, obey my sign, or fly before this breathing !
Writhing serpent, crawl at my feet, or be tortured by the sacred fire and give way before the perfumes that I burn in it !
Water, return to water!
Fire, burn !
Air, circulate !
Earth, revert to earth ! By virtue of the Pentagram, which is the Morning Star, and by the Name of the Tetragram, which is written in the center of the Cross of Light !
AMEN. AMEN. AMEN.”

CONJURATION OF THE SEVEN

“In the name of Michael, may Jehovah command thee and drive thee hence, Chavajoth !
In the name of Gabriel, may Adonai command thee, and drive thee hence, Bael !
In the name of Raphael, begone before Elial, Samgabiel!
By Samael Zabaoth, and in the name of Elohim Gibor, get thee hence, Andramelech !
By Zachariel et Sachel-Meleck, be obedient unto Elvah, Sanagabrill
By the divine and human name of Shaddai, and by the sign of the Pentagram which I hold in my right hand, in the name of the angel Anael, by the power of Adam and eve, who are
Jotchavah, begone Lilith! Let us rest in peace, Nahemah !
By the holy Elohim and by die names of the genii Cashiel, Sehaltiel, Aphiel and Zarahiel, at the command of Orifiel, depart from us Moloch ! We deny thee our children to devour!
AMEN. AMEN. AMEN.”
One has to conjure the tenebrous ones with the sword.

---

(HAIN) THE FULMINATED TOWER

Spells

When the Astral light coagulates like a flower, we fall in love with the flower.
When the Astral light coagulates in a picturesque scene we fall in love with the scene.
When the Astral light accumulates in a woman, we fall in love with the woman.
The Astral light is full of beauty and sentimentalism.
The spells of Astral light are dangerous.
“Unhappy is the Samson of the Kabbalah who lets himself be lulled to sleep by
Delilah; the Hercules of science who changes his sceptre of power for the bone of Omphale will feel very quickly the vengeances of Deianeira and will not have any remedy but the bonfire of the mountain. This to escape the voracious torments of the tunic of Nessus.”
He who lives bewitched by different women will not be i than a weak bird fulminated by the bewitching eyes of the tempting serpent of the Astral light.
The Astral Light is filled with images that float.
These images are filled with beauty and sentimentalism.
In these images is the secret of all the tragedies of our life.
The wise Solomon left us a marvellous Invocation to ask for help from the superior powers.
With this invocation we receive help for our individual needs.

THE INVOCATION OF SOLOMON

“Powers of the kingdom, be ye under my left foot and in my right hand ! Glory and Eternity, take me by the two shoulders, and direct me in the paths of victory !
Mercy and Justice, be ye the equilibrium and splendor of my life!
Intelligence and Wisdom, crown me!
Spirits of Malchuth, lead me betwixt the two pillars upon which rests the whole edifice of the Temple!
Angels of Netsach and Hod, establish me upon the cubic stone of Jesod !
Oh Gedulael! Oh Geburael! Oh Tiphereth !
Binael, be my love!
Ruach Hochmael, be thou my light ! Be that which thou art and thou shalt be!
Oh Ketheriel !
Ischim, assist me in the name of Shaddai !
Cherubim, be my strength in the name of Adonai !
Beni-Elohim, be my brethren in the name of the Son, and by the powers of Sabaoth !
Elohim, do battle for me in the name of Te-tra-gra-ma-ton.
Malachim, protect me in the name of Iod-He-Vau-He !
Seraphim, cleanse my love in the name of Eloah !
Hasmalim, enlighten me with the splendors of Elohim and Shekinah!
Aralim, act!
Ophanim, revolve and shine!
Ha cry, speak, roar, bellow!
Kadosh, Kadosh, Kadosh!
Shaddal, Adonai, Jot-Chavah, EIEAZEREIE!
Hallelu-Jah, Hallelu-Jah, Hallelu-Jah.
AMEN. AMEN. AMEN.”

---

(PHE) HOPE

The Art of Speaking with the Sidereal Gods

The magician can talk with the Gods every time he wants to.
We can see the Gods face to face, without dying.
He who wants to talk with the sidereal Gods does not need carnival Horoscopes.
We should transform ourselves into terribly divine beings.
To converse with the sidereal Gods we should learn to leave our physical body.
In Astral body we have learn to transport ourselves to the temple of the sidereal Gods.
Being outside the body the magician walks in circles from right to left, placing the imagination and will on the planetary temple he desires to visit.
Then the magician will follow a straight line walking in the direction of the temple.
To the right of every cosmic temple there is a white column.
To the left of every cosmic temple there is a black column.
The magician greets the guardian on the right, saying: JACHIN
The magician greets the guardian on the left, saying: BOHAZ.
In the interior of the temple we can speak with the planetary Gods to get to know our authentic and legitimate horoscopes.
The persons who have a transverse line on the forehead are children of GABRIEL; those who have two lines are children of RAPHAEL; those who have three are children of URIEL; those who have four are children of MICHAEL; those who have five are children of SAMAEL; those who have six are children of ZACHARIEL; and those who hi seven are children of ORIFIEL.

---

(TZAD) TWILIGHT

The Evil Eye

The “Evil Eye” in children is cured by reading to them a fragment of each of the four
Gospels and making the sign of the Cross on their forehead, mouth and chest.
The Evil Eye is also cured by reciting the Conjuration of the Four and making passes over the head to lake out the morbid fluid that can be burnt in fire.
The children who have the Evil Eye have big shadows under their eyes, fever in the head, vomiting and even diarrhea.
The Evil Eye is due to the hypnotic force of some evil persons who look at children.
Doctors do not know anything about these things and almost always confuse this illness with stomach infections.
The eyes are the windows of the soul.
The man who lets himself be caught by the eyes of all women will have to resign himself to living in the abyss.
There are women who perform witchcraft on men.
These victims should defend themselves incessantly with the conjurations of the Four and of the Seven.
To achieve INITIATION we have to steal fire from the devil.
To achieve INITIATION it is up to us to wage great battles against the black lodge.
We can defend ourselves from witchcraft, invoking our own elemental intercessor.
The elemental Intercessor knows about herbs, he knows about enlightenments, he knows about stars because he is an expert in the elemental Magic of Nature.
He s called upon wholeheartedly upon going to bed.

---

(QOPH) THE RADIANT SUN

The Philosopher’s Stone

The Philosophers Stone is the SEMEN.
He who practices Sexual Magic every day is working with the Philosopher’s Stone.
He who raises his seven Serpents on the rod acquires the following powers:
The power to never die and to remain in the physical body until the consummation of the centuries. The power to govern all the elements of Nature.
The power to make oneself immune against all types of firearms. The power to make oneself the master of entire creation.
The power to see and hear everything. The Power to be wise. The power to govern the Celestial militias, etc.
Everything that is necessary to work with the Philosophers Stone Is to have a good woman.
The woman serves to transform us into Gods.

---

(RESCH) RESURRECTION

Potable Gold

The potable gold is the same fire of the Kundalini. (See TREATISE OF SEXUAL
ALCHEMY by the same author).
The universal Medicine is in the potable gold.
We should end all types of human weaknesses.
The serpents of the abyss attempt to steal the potable gold from the disciple.
The disciple who lets himself fall has to afterwards struggle a lot to recuperate what is lost.
The chief of wisdom of the Serpent is the angel METATRON.
Metatron was the prophet ENOCH of which the Bible talks about.
ENOCH left us the 22 letters of the Hebrew Alphabet.
Enoch left us the TAROT in which is contained all the divine wisdom.
When a Bodhisattva lets himself fall, he is then separated from his internal Master, so as to be punished.
It is in this manner that the Bodhisattvas receive their punishment.

---

(SHIN) TRANSMUTATION

Meditation

Those who cannot come out in the Astral body owe it to having lost the faculty and then they have to reconquer this faculty through daily Meditation.
Meditation is a scientific system to receive internal information.
When the magician submerges himself in meditation, he abandons his physical body and he can converse with the sidereal Gods.
Meditation covers four phases:
ASANA; (Posture of the physical body). The body should remain in an absolutely comfortable position.
DHARANA: (Concentration). We should separate the mind from all types of earthly thoughts. “Earthly thoughts should fall dead before the doors of the temple.” One has to concentrate the mind only on within... on our INNER SELF.
DYANA: (Meditation). The disciple should meditate on those instants on the INNER
SELF. The INNER SELF is the SPIRIT. “Remember that thy bodies are the temple of the living God and that the Most High dwells in us.” The disciple should fall asleep profoundly trying to converse with his INNER SELF.
SHAMADI: (Ecstasy). If the disciple has been able to fall asleep meditating on his INNER SELF, then he enters the state of Shamadi and he can see and hear ineffable things and converse with the angels in a familiar manner. It is in this way that he awakens conscience from its millenary lethargy. It is in this manner that we can acquire flue divine wisdom, without the need of harming the powers of the Mind with the battle of reasoning, or with vain intellectualisms. Meditation is the daily bread of the sage.
With Meditation our Astral body is transformed, our astral experiences are made clear during the hours of sleep and in this way man reconquers his faculties and learns to come out in the Astral body at will.
Then he will be able to use, with success, the clues that we gave in the chapter of GIMEL or The Empress.
With meditation we can function without the four bodies of sin, in the world of the MIST OF FIRE.
During the hours of sleep every human being functions in the Astral body. Dreams are the Astral experiences.
On awakening, we should force ourselves to remember all our Astral experiences.
During sleep every person is outside his physical body.

---

(THAU) THE RETURN

This book of White Magic is not liked by any black magician.
Every person that reads this book and repudiates it, it is because he is a black magician.
Every student of Occultism who repudiates it, it is because he is a black magician.
Every association of fornicators is black magic.
JEHOVAH prohibits fornication and every person who disobeys the commandments of the Lord JEHOVAH All is a black magician.
Our single disciples of both sexes can transmute their sexual energy with the Rune OLIN.

EXERCISE

In a firm footed position the disciple will do several inhalations and exhalations rhythmically.
As he inhales air he should unite his imagination and will in vibrant harmony to make the sexual energy rise through the two ganglionic cords of the Medulla until it reaches the brain, between the eyebrows, the throat and the heart, respectively.
Then the disciple will exhale his breath, firmly imagining that the sexual energy is fixed on the heart.
On exhaling his breath, the disciple will vocalize the mantram “THORN” in this manner.
TOOOOOOOOOOORRRRRRRNNNNNNN...
In this way our disciples who are single, of both sexes, can transmute their sexual energy
The sexual energies are also transmuted with the esthetic sense, with love of music, sculpture and in great walks, etc.
The single person who does not want to have sexual problems should be absolutely pure in thought, in word and in deed.
With the exercise of the Rune OLIN we should carry out several movements of the arms.
The disciple should place his right hand on his waist.
He will extend both hands towards the left, the left hand slightly more elevated than the tight, the arms stretched to form an acute angle with the trunk.
Place both hands on the waist.
I, AUN WEOR, the authentic and legitimate AVATAR of the new Age of AQUARIUS, declare that all the sciences of the Universe are reduced to the Kabbalah and Alchemy.
He who wants to be a magician has to be an alchemist and kabbalist.
He who wants to have the Universal medicine has to be an Alchemist and Kabbalist.
There are black magicians such as the terrible and monstrous Percival Krumm-Heller and like that Cherenzi, who teach their disciples a negative Sexual Magic, during which they ejaculate their seminal liquor.
These phallic culls were practiced by the evil, Cananean black magicians and by the sorcerers from Cartago, lyre and Sidon.
The negative Sexual Magic of Percival and of Cherenzi form part of the tantric cults of the Cananeans.
That negative Sexual Magic of Percival and of Cherenzi was practiced by the Lemurian-Atlantean black magicians to ingratiate themselves with the demons.
Those cities were reduced to dust and all those evil ones penetrated the abyss.
When man spills his semen he gathers from the submerged worlds, millions of demoniacal atoms, which infect our Brahmanic cord and sink us within our own atomic infernos.
With Sexual Magic the three breaths of pure Akash remain reinforced.
However, if man ejaculates his semen, those three breaths will make the Kundalini descend downwards towards the atomic infernos of man.
That is the tail of Satan.
No disciple should spill even a drop of semen.
Here I deliver to humanity the key to all the empires of Heaven and Earth.
Here I deliver to humanity the key to all the powers and the key to all the empires of Heaven and Earth because I do not want to see this sad ants’ nest of humanity suffer so much any more.
I, after studying all the spiritualist libraries of the world, have arrived at the logical conclusion that everything is reduced to numbers and to Alchemy.
One does not gain anything by stuffing one’s head with so many theories.
All these millions of volumes that have been written on Theosophism, Spiritism,
Rosicrucianism, Magnetism, Hypnotism, Suggestion, etc. has only served to make people crazy.
All the spiritualist schools are filled with eccentric people.
In the spiritualist schools we see the greatest variety in types of madness.
Theories lilt people with madness.
Among the spiritualist ranks many let their hair and beard grow and think that with that they will become Gods.
In the spiritualist currents there abound the most varied types of mental imbalance.
Really, the only thing that is useful to one in life is to have a good woman and practice Sexual Magic every day.
We should live life intensely, with rectitude and with love.
We should earn our daily bread with the sweat of our brow and be good citizens.
With the practical teachings that I have delivered to my disciples in this Manual of Practical Magic, each of you can transform himself into a true, ineffable GOD.
I, AUN WEOR, am a Logos from preceding Mahamanvantaras and therefore, I have the sufficient authority to speak about these things.
Living life with rectitude and with love, our disciples go on receiving their Initiations in the internal worlds.
All the books that have been written on spiritualism are filled with contradictions.
All of them say the same.
All of them contradict themselves.
Some authors contradict others and an author himself contradicts himself every five minutes.
In the end, the poor reader ends his life as an eccentric, full of mental imbalances.
I, AUN WEOR, swear in the name of the dearly beloved FATHER, in the name of the dearly adored Son and in the name of the most wise HOLY SPIRIT, that he who practices the teachings of this MANUAL OF PRACTICAL MAGIC will transform himself into a terribly divine GOD of the UNIVERSE.

MAY PEACE BE WITH THE WHOLE OF HUMANITY !
AUN WEOR

---