Sarah

(Hebrew שרה) A symbolic character in the book of Genesis by Moses.  

"And God said unto Abraham, As for Sarai thy wife, thou shalt not call her name שרי Sarai, but שרה Sarah shall her name be. And I will bless her, and give thee a son also of her: yea, I will bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations; kings of people shall be of her. Then Abraham fell upon his face, and laughed, and said in his heart, Shall a child be born unto him that is an hundred years old? and shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear? And Abraham said unto God, O that Ishmael might live before thee! And God said, Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son indeed; and thou shalt call his name Isaac: and I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant, and with his seed after him." - Genesis 17 


"Sarai שרי is written with the letters Shin, Resh and Iod, שרי. In the name שרי Sarai we see the letters Shin (symbol of fire) which represents the three primary forces, and the letters Resh and Iod which are related to the head of Arik Anpin. So in the name שרי Sarai, princess, we discover that the Nukva as wisdom is an unfoldment of the Resh, the head, and the Shin, the trinity, or the three primary forces and the Iod from the Ain Soph. Sarai שרי is placed above the head because the letter Iod and Shin corresponds to the Ain Soph and the first triangle, the crown above the Resh, the head. This is why Abram’s sister is שרי Sarai. Sarai שרי, the princess, as the Valkyrie, is the female aspect of Iod-Havah Elohim, an issue of Binah, because the letter Shin of שרי Sarai is placed always in Daath. So שרי Sarai as a female aspect, the Nukva, has the archetypes of Isra ישר within her womb. Observe that שרי Sarai and Isra (Yasher ישר) are spelled with the same letters. This is why it is written that שרי Sarai was sterile, meaning that still the archetypes were not developed in the ה Hei of יהוה. So as in Hinduism, Brahma (Abraham) and his wife Saraswati (Sarah) are emanations of the Supreme Being named Brahman whose Nukva is known in Sanskrit as Prakriti. In their turn both are emanations or Parabrahman, the Absolute. Likewise, Abraham and his wife Sarah both are emanations of Iod-Havah Elohim, which in their turn are emanations of Aelohim the אור Aur, the light, of the Absolute." - Kabbalah of Genesis 17 Israel's Entrance into Nukva, Part 1
