Self-remembering

A state of active Consciousness , controlled by will, that begins with awareness of being here and now . This state has many levels (see: Consciousness ). True Self-remembering occurs without thought or mental processing: it is a state of conscious perception and includes the remembrance or awareness of the inner Being. 

"Even though it seems incredible, when aspirants are observing themselves they do not remember their Self. Indeed, beyond any doubt, aspirants do not perceive their Self; they have no cognizance of their Self. It seems inconceivable that when Gnostic aspirants self-observe their mannerisms when they laugh, speak, walk, etc., they forget their Self; this is incredible, but true. Nevertheless, it is indispensable to exert the remembrance of our Self while we are observing ourselves. This is fundamental in order to attain the awakening of the Consciousness . Self-observing, self-knowing, without forgetting our Self, is terribly difficult, but frightfully urgent in order to attain the awakening of the Consciousness . What we are stating seems trivial to the people who ignore that they are asleep; they ignore that they do not remember their Self, not even when they look at their bodies in a full-length mirror, moreover, not even when they observe themselves in detail meticulously. The forgetfulness of our Self, the lack of remembering of our Self, is indeed the causa causorum of all human ignorance." —Samael Aun Weor, Light from Darkness 

"Behold how difficult is to remain with the Consciousness awake from instant to instant, from moment to moment, from second after second; however, if one has true longings for becoming fully awakened - this is the beginning - one must not forget oneself, not even for a moment. Yes, one must keep remembering oneself wherever one walks - in any living room, or whichever street one goes around by walking, jogging or riding a car, whether it be at night or at daylight; wherever one might be, at work or in the shop, anywhere, one must remember oneself while in the presence of any beautiful object, or while before any window-shop where very beautiful things are being shown, etc., in other words, one must not become identified with anything that one likes or is captivated with." —Samael Aun Weor, The Key of SOL 

Learn more:  Key of Sol ,  Inner Remembering of One’s Self
