Skepticism

from Greek σκεπτῐκός skeptikos, plural Skeptikoi "the Skeptics, followers of Pyrrho (360-c. 270 B.C.E.)," derived from Greek σκέψις skepsis, "inquiry." Related to skeptesthai "to reflect, look, view" from root spek- "to observe." 
While the word skepticism is derived from "inquiry," modern skeptics do not inquire, they doubt and negate. The ancient philosophy of skepticism was based on the philosophical notion that it is not possible to know the ultimate reality, thus to find serenity, one should suspend thought and the questions of the mind. However, that philosophy degenerated into the modern infection of assuming that one already knows the truth, and doubting everything that conflicts with one's personal views. In other words, there is no interest in knowing what the actual truth is. The modern skeptic firmly rejects inquiry. 
Modern skepticism is a significant indicator of the degeneration of critical thought, discussion, inquiry, and debate. 

Indeed, all newspapers are filled with ideas that falsify the mind. On this path of psychological liberation it is not convenient to falsify the mind. It is evident to me that conscious faith is necessary in order for true mental health to exist. The press fills the mind with skepticism . Skepticism alters the equilibrium of the mind because it makes it ill. Journalists are one hundred percent skeptical by nature. Mental health is not possible as long as conscious faith does not exist. The skepticism of journalists is contagious and destroys the mind. Instead of reading foolishness, children should be taken to the countryside and fairy tales of olden times should be narrated to them. Thus, in this manner, their mind will remain open and free of the prejudices of these decadent and degenerated times. In these decrepit and mechanical times it is necessary to recover the capacity of amazement. Unfortunately, modern people have lost this capacity." -Samael Aun Weor, The Revolution of the Dialectic 


"In their psychological depth, the skeptical materialists have a trauma. The cause of that trauma is Roman Catholic dogma. They were disappointed by the Roman sect; thus, the outcome of their disappointment was a psychological trauma. They are enemies of Hegel. Now, anything that smells of spirituality, unconsciously seems to these skeptical materialists as being from the Roman Catholic Church. This is their psychological trauma." -Samael Aun Weor, Sexology 


"We wander in the streets with the consciousness asleep; we are in our house, in our job, in the body shop, in the office, etc., with the consciousness profoundly asleep.  We drive our car and we go to the factory with the consciousness tremendously asleep. 
People are born, they grow, they breed, they get old and die with the consciousness asleep; thus, they never know where they come from nor the objective of their own existence. What is most grave in this matter is that all of them believe that they are awake. 
For instance, many people are preoccupied in knowing many esoteric things, yet they never occupy themselves with the awakening of their consciousness .   If people had the purpose of awakening here and now, then immediately they could know all of that which for them are enigmas; this is why skepticism exists, because the skeptical is ignorant, and ignorance is the outcome of a sleeping consciousness . 
Indeed, I want to tell you in the name of the truth that skepticism exists because of ignorance. Therefore, the day when the people awaken their consciousness they will stop being ignorant, and, as a fact, skepticism will disappear, because ignorance is equal to skepticism and vice versa. 
Indeed, Gnosis is not a doctrine that seeks to convince skeptical people, because if today we convince 100 skeptical individuals, tomorrow we have to convince 10,000, and if we convince the 10,000, then 100,000 will appear who want to be convinced, and so on and so forth, thus, we will never be done." -Samael Aun Weor,  Key of Sol
