Solar Logos

Solar is from Latin solaris "of the sun," from sol "sun." Logos is from Greek "word," a way of describing divinity. 
The Solar Logos is the sun god or solar divinity found in all religions. 
The Cosmic Christ (Ahura Mazda, Vishnu, etc) is the Army of the Voice, the great breath, the central sun, the Solar Logos , the Word of God. 

"I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life." - John 8:12 


"The Sephirah Chokmah of the Hebraic Kabbalah is the Cosmic Christ, the Christus. He is Vishnu among the Hindus. 
"The Second Logos, Chokmah, is love, the Agnus Dei, the immolated Lamb; it is the fire that burns since the beginning of the world, in all of creation, for our salvation. Chokmah is fire and underlies the depth of all organic and inorganic matter. 
"Solar energy is Astral Light. Its essence is the Christonic power which is enclosed in the fertile pollen of the flower, enclosed within the heart of the fruit of the tree, enclosed within the internal secretion glands of the animal and the human being... 
"Christ is the same wisdom, the Solar Logos, whose physical body is the sun. Christ walks with his sun just in the same way that the human soul walks with its body of flesh and bones. Christ is the light of the sun. The light of the sun is the light of Christ. 
"The light of the sun is a Christonic substance which causes the plant to be created and the seed to be sprouted. This substance of the Solar Logos remains enclosed within the dark hardness of the grain and permits the plant to incessantly reproduce itself with a glorious, vigorous, and active life... 
"This world has consciousness thanks to the help of the Second Logos. Likewise, we can also awaken and have consciousness." - Samael Aun Weor, Tarot and Kabbalah 


"To them [ancient peoples] he [the sun] was the innate fire of bodies, the fire of Nature. Author of Life, heat, and ignition, he was to them the efficient cause of all generation, for without him there was no movement, no existence, no form. He was to them immense, indivisible, imperishable, and everywhere present. It was their need of light, and of his creative energy, that was felt by all men; and nothing was more fearful to them than his absence. His beneficent influences caused his identification with the Principle of Good; and the BRAHMA of the Hindus, and MITHRAS of the Persians, and ATHOM, AMUN, PHTHA, and OSIRIS, of the Egyptians, the BEL of the Chaldeans, the ADONAI of the Phœnicians, the ADONIS and APOLLO of the Greeks, became but personifications of the Sun, the regenerating Principle, image of that fecundity which perpetuates and rejuvenates the world's existence." -Albert Pike 


"The Greeks believed that Apollo, Bacchus, Dionysos, Sabazius, Hercules, Jason, Ulysses, Zeus, Uranus, and Vulcan partook of either the visible or invisible attributes of the sun. The Norwegians regarded Balder the Beautiful as a solar deity, and Odin is often connected with the celestial orb, especially because of his one eye. Among the Egyptians, Osiris, Ra, Anubis, Hermes, and even the mysterious Ammon himself had points of resemblance with the solar disc. Isis was the mother of the sun, and even Typhon, the Destroyer, was supposed to be a form of solar energy. The Egyptian sun myth finally centered around the person of a mysterious deity called Serapis. The two Central American deities, Tezcatlipoca and Quetzalcoatl, while often associated with the winds, were also undoubtedly solar gods. 
In Masonry the sun has many symbols. One expression of the solar energy is Solomon, whose name SOL-OM-ON is the name for the Supreme Light in three different languages. Hiram Abiff, the CHiram (Hiram) of the Chaldees, is also a solar deity, and the story of his attack and murder by the Ruffians, with its solar interpretation, will be found in the chapter The Hiramic Legend. A striking example of the important part which the sun plays in the symbols and rituals of Freemasonry is given by George Oliver, D.D., in his Dictionary of Symbolical Masonry, as follows: 
"The sun rises in the east, and in the east is the place for the Worshipful Master. As the sun is the source of all light and warmth, so should the Worshipful Master enliven and warm the brethren to their work. Among the ancient Egyptians the sun was the symbol of divine providence." The hierophants of the Mysteries were adorned with many insignia emblematic of solar power. The sunbursts of gilt embroidery on the back of the vestments of the Catholic priesthood signify that the priest is also an emissary and representative of Sol Invictus." -Manly P. Hall
