Superman

The term Superman first appeared in English in 1903 when George Bernard Shaw translated the German Übermensch, "highly evolved human being that transcends good and evil," from "Thus Spake Zarathustra" (1883-91), by Friedrich Nietzsche (1844-1900). This term refers to a type of human being far beyond the ordinary person. 

In general, there are three types of human beings: 

The ordinary person (called human being out of respect): the intellectual animal 
The true Human Being or Man (from manas, mind): someone who has created the Soul (the Solar Bodies, symbolized as the chariot of Ezekiel or Krishna, the Wedding Garment of Jesus, the sacred weapons of the heroes of mythology, etc. Such persons are Saints, Masters, or Buddhas of various levels. 
The Superman: a true Human Being who has also incarnated the Cosmic Christ, thus going beyond mere Sainthood or Buddhahood, and into the highest reaches of liberation. These are the founders of religions, the destroyers of dogmas and traditions, the great rebels of spiritual light. 

"The masses qualify the Superman as perverse for the very 
fact that he does not fit in with indisputable dogmas, neither 
within pious phrases, nor within the upright morality of seri- 
ous people. 
People abhor the Superman. They crucify him amongst 
criminals because they do not understand him, because they 
prejudge him, viewing him through the psychological lenses of 
what is believed to be holy, even if it is evil. 
The Superman is like a flash of lightening which falls over 
the perverse, or like the brilliance of something which is not 
understood and which is later lost in mystery. 
The Superman is not a saint, nor is he perverse; he is 
beyond sanctity and perversity. Nevertheless, people qualify 
him as holy or perverse. 
The Superman glimmers for a moment within the dark- 
ness of this world and soon afterwards disappears forever. 
Within the Superman, the Red Christ, the revolutionary 
Christ, the Lord of the great rebellion radiantly shines." - Samael Aun Weor, The Great Rebellion
