Emptiness

(Sanskrit: Sunyata; Tibetan: stong-pa-nyid) The ultimate reality, also called the Absolute, paramarthasatya, dharmata, tathata, etc. 

"Emptiness is simply a clear and precise Buddhist term which denotes the insubstantial and impersonal nature of beings, and an indication of the state of absolute detachment and freedom outside of time and beyond the mind." - Samael Aun Weor, The Mystery of the Golden Blossom 

"Know all things to be like this: 
A mirage, a cloud castle, 
A dream, an apparition, 
Without essence, but with qualities that can be seen. 

Know all things to be like this: 
As the moon in a bright sky 
In some clear lake reflected, 
Though to that lake the moon has never moved. 

Know all things to be like this: 
As an echo that derives 
From music, sounds, and weeping, 
Yet in that echo is no melody. 

Know all things to be like this: 
As a magician makes illusions 
Of horses, oxen, carts and other things, 
Nothing is as it appears. 
- The Buddha, Samadhi Raja Sutra 

"Sometimes, the thought of "I" suddenly arises with great force....The situation is like that of a rock or a tree seen protruding up from the peak of a hill on the horizon: From afar it may be mistaken for a human being. Yet the existence of a human in that rock or tree is only an illusion. On deeper investigation, no human being can be found in any of the individual pieces of the protruding entity, nor in its collection of parts, nor in any other aspect of it. Nothing in the protrusion can be said to be a valid basis for the name "human being." Likewise, the solid "I" which seems to exist somewhere within the body and mind is merely an imputation. The body and mind are no more represented by the sense of "I" than is the protruding rock represented by the word "human." This "I" cannot be located anywhere within any individual piece of the body and mind, nor is it found within the body and mind as a collection, nor is there a place outside of these that could be considered to be a substantial basis of the object referred to by the name "I"." - The Second Dalai Lama (1475-1542) 

See also "Illuminating Void"
