Lakshmi

(Sanskrit लक्ष्मी) In Hinduism, one of the three primary aspects of the Divine Mother. Lakshmi is the wife / feminine aspect — meaning the shakti, power — of Vishnu, the Preserver or Restorer; He is the Second Logos, the Son; He is the sephirah Chokmah in Kabbalah ; thus, Lakshmi is the power of Chokmah . 
"She bestows on Her devotees the inexhaustible divine wealth or Deivi Sampath. Lakshmi is the wealth-giving aspect of God ... Lakshmi does not mean mere material wealth like gold, cattle, etc. All kinds of prosperity, glory, magnificence, joy, exaltation, or greatness come under Lakshmi. Appayya Dikshita calls even final Liberation as Moksha-Samrajya-Lakshmi... She is Vidya Shakti. She introduces Her devotees to Her Lord. She recommends them to Her Lord for their salvation... She is the power of Lord Narayana who is also known as Lord Vishnu or Lord Hari. Narayana is God ’s aspect of preservation. He is an embodiment of Shuddha Sattwa. Lakshmi is His Causal body . She is Maya, the illusory power of Nature. She deludes the whole world by Her veiling power and projects it through Her projecting power. She Herself as Vidya-Lakshmi enlightens the spiritual aspirant. Beauty, grace, a picturesque scenery or charming landscape, modesty, love, prosperity, music, the five elements and their combinations, the internal organs, mind, Prana, intellect—all these are Her manifestations. 
"Without Lakshmi even Sannyasins cannot do propaganda or preaching work or run their institutions. They are in fact more in need of Lakshmi than the householders because they have to do great dynamic work for human weal. Sri Shankara worshipped Devi, Lakshmi and Saraswathi for success in his work. All great prophets and divine messengers who have done great spiritual work in the past were devotees of Mother Lakshmi, Devi and Saraswathi. 
"May Goddess Lakshmi bless you all! Let us repeat Her Mantra: 
"Om mahaadevyai cha vidmahe; Vishnu patnyai cha dheemahi Tanno lakshmi prachodayat." - Swami Sivananda 
"The sacred scriptures of India affirm that the navel, the heart, and the throat are igneous centers of the human organism. They also affirm that by meditating on these centers, we experience the presence of the Masters Sarasvati, Lakshmi, and Parvati or Gauri in successive hierarchical order. These three masters work with the three profundities of our resplendent Dragon of Wisdom. These three Masters direct the forces that come from the three aspects of the Solar Logos. Sarasvati works with the forces of the Father. Lakshmi works with the forces of the Son, and Parvati with the forces of the Holy Spirit. Sarasvati exerts control over the human mind. Lakshmi exerts control over the Astral body . Parvati exerts control over the physical body..." - Samael Aun Weor, The Perfect Matrimony
