Marut

(Sanskrit मरुत्) Literally, "wind, air, storm God , beauty, gold, God of wind" 

An alternate name of Vayu, the God of the wind or air. 

In the Vedas, the word is a reference to "the storm gods" or gods of the wind. "...the Maruts have themselves glorified their greatness." - Vedas 

Samael Aun Weor uses the term Marut to refer to people who have solar bodies but also have the ego alive, therefore they are very dangerous.  
"The Twice-born who does not reduce his lunar ego to cosmic dust converts himself into an abortion of the cosmic mother. He becomes a marut, and there are thousands of types of maruts. Certain Asian sects and some Muslim tribes commit the lamentable error of rendering cult to all of those families of maruts. Every marut, every hasnamuss [plural: hasnamussen] has in fact two personalities: one white and another black (one solar and another lunar). The Innermost, the Being dressed with the electronic solar bodies, is the white personality of the hasnamuss, and the pluralized “I” dressed with the protoplasmic lunar bodies is the hasnamuss’ black personality. Therefore, these maruts have a double center of gravity." —Samael Aun Weor 
"[The Divine Mother Earth Goddess] Diti, having lost her children [because they were killed by Storm God Indra / Zeus], propitiated [the master] Kaśyapa; and the best of ascetics, being pleased with her, promised her a boon; on which she prayed for a son of irresistible prowess and valour, who should destroy Indra. The excellent Muni granted his wife the great gift she had solicited, but with one condition: "You shall bear a son," he said, "who shall slay Indra, if with thoughts wholly pious, and person entirely pure [chaste], you carefully carry the babe in your womb for a hundred years." Having thus said, Kaśyapa departed; and the dame conceived, and during gestation assiduously observed the rules of mental and personal purity [brahmacharya]. When the king of the immortals [Indra], learnt that Diti bore a son destined for his destruction, he came to her, and attended upon her with the utmost humility, watching for an opportunity to disappoint her intention. At last, in the last year of the century, the opportunity occurred. Diti retired one night to rest without performing the prescribed ablution of her feet, and fell asleep [ie. she failed in her spiritual duties]; on which the thunderer divided with his thunderbolt the embryo in her womb into seven portions. The child, thus mutilated, cried bitterly; and Indra repeatedly attempted to console and silence it [by saying "Ma ruda," which means "Cry not."], but in vain: on which the God , being incensed, again divided each of the seven portions into seven [thereby making them 49], and thus formed the swift-moving deities called Márutas [Maruts]." —Vishnu Purana 21
