Mercury

A symbol with many levels of meaning. 
"Mercury is Buddha, the Genie or God who is situated between the Sun and the Moon. He is the perpetual companion of the Sun of Wisdom. In Greek Mythology, Mercury displayed wings in order to express how he assisted the Sun on its sidereal course. Mercury was called Nuncio and Wolf of the Sun: Solaris Luminis Particeps. “He was the chief and the evoker of the souls, the Kabir and Hierophant.” Virgil describes Mercury holding the Caduceus or Hammer of two serpents in order to evoke to a new life those unhappy souls who were precipitated into the ORCO of classic Greeks, the Christian Limbo, TUM VIRGAM CAPIT, HAC ANIMAS ILLE EVOCAT ORCO, with the purpose of having them enter into the celestial militia." - Samael Aun Weor, The Doomed Aryan Race 
1) the first planet of the esoteric order and the closest to the Sun-Christ. Psychologically, Mercury influences the mind and is ruled by Raphael. Related to intellectualism, journalism, law suits, sciences, trips, medicine, etc. "Journalism, intellectualism, businesses, quarrels, journeys and all types of matters related with the Mind." - Samael Aun Weor, Manual of Practical Magic. For an entire chapter on the planet Mercury, read Samael Aun Weor, The Doomed Aryan Race. 
2) Mercury (Hermes) the God is the companion of the sun and the fastest of the gods. He displays radiant wings of fire to express that he was helping the Christ-Sun in its eternal course. Symbolized in Greek mythology by hare-hunting dogs or guardian dogs of celestial cattle, drinking from the very pure wells of occult wisdom. Also known as Hermes-Anubis or as the Good Inspirator, Agathodaemon. Emperor Julian prayed every night to the occult Sun (Christ) through the intercession of mercury. 
3) Alchemically: "the metallic soul of the sperm (sperm or semen refers to sexual energy in men and women)." The sperm of all metals. The Spirit of Alchemy . "Unquestionably, the Mercury of the Wise must be fecundated by the sulfur, in other words, by the Fire." - Samael Aun Weor, The Pistis Sophia Unveiled 
"The ancient populace worshiped the corn, wheat and rice, because the sacred seed is represented by them. Mayas and Nahuas symbolized the Mercury of the Wise with corn. The Middle East and Europe saw the blessed seed in the wheat. China, Japan and India saw the sacred sperm in the rice." - Samael Aun Weor, The Pistis Sophia Unveiled 
"The Wings of Mercury elevate us to the world of Gods." 
Types of Mercury: 
“Firstly, there is brute Mercury, which means the Exiohehari, or sacred sperm. 
“Second, there is the metallic soul of the sperm, which is the result of the transmutation of the sexual libido (the sperm). Therefore, this metallic soul is creative energy that ascends through the ganglionic spinal cords to the brain. 
“The third Mercury is the most elevated. It is the Mercury that has been fertilized by Sulfur. In Alchemy , Sulfur is the sacred fire.” - Samael Aun Weor, from the lecture “Archeus” 
"Whosoever possesses the Mercury of the wise will attain Final Liberation. To attain the Philosophical Stone would be impossible if one does not first of all get to know oneself. The preparation of the Mercury is usually difficult. The Mercury results from the transformation of the Exohehari or Brute Azoth. The Brute Azoth represents the sacred sperm." - Samael Aun Weor, The Revolution of the Dialectic
