Mystical Death

The annihilation of the ego , symbolized in scores of religious and mythological stories, notably in the crucifixion and the martyrdom of saints. This death frees the Consciousness from its prison, resulting in a new spiritual birth. 

"The annihilation of the psychic aggregates can be made possible only by radically comprehending our errors through Meditation and by the evident Self-reflection of the Being." - Samael Aun Weor, The Pistis Sophia Unveiled 

"Indeed, the ‘I’ can only be annihilated by means of a rigorous creative comprehension. We need to perform a self-dissection to the ‘I’ with the scalpel of the self-criticism. Instead of criticizing others, we must criticize ourselves. Practical life is a full-length mirror where we can see our selves just as we really are. When the mind is found in a state of alert-perception while coexisting with the neighbor, we can then easily discover our defects because these spontaneously arise. It is astounding the manner in which our defects emerge while in relation with the neighbors, with our friends, with our fellow workers, with our spouse, with our children, with our acquaintances, etc., thus, if we are alert and vigilant as the watchmen in the time of war, it is then clearly logical that we can see our defects as they really are. Self-discovery exists while coexisting with others, if we are in the state of alert-perception. Any discovered defect must be intellectually analyzed; nonetheless, the intellect is not everything; the intellect is only a fraction of the mind. We need to delve; we need to explore the subconsciousness more deeply in order to discover the inner roots of our defects. Yes, only through a very deep Meditation can we really explore the subconsciousness. Thus, when we have completely comprehended a defect, the energetic ‘I’ that personifies it can be disintegrated. Thus, this is how we die from moment to moment." - Samael Aun Weor, Cosmic Ships 

"We annihilate the “I” based on alchemical operations only."- Samael Aun Weor, Endocrinology and Criminology
