Fig Tree

The fig tree solely represents the feminine sexual forces. It is impossible to reach deep realization without the Alchemy of the feminine solar forces. The Angelic Hierarchies related with these elemental forces of Nature are those who apply the karma to fornicators. 

The Caduceus of Mercury has two serpents, which symbolizes the Spinal Medulla with the two ganglionic chords: Ida and Pingala. In the common and ordinary human being, the right serpent (Pingala) ascends while the left serpent (Ida) descends towards the atomic infernos of the human being, for his own passionate satisfaction. It is necessary to transmute the sexual energy in order to lift up the fallen lunar serpent. It is necessary to raise the fallen serpent, which is represented in Eve and the Fig Tree. Pingala (Adam) is entwined with the head upwards, while Ida (Eve) is entwined with the head downwards. One is OD and the other is OB according to ancient Kabbalists. The serpent with its head upwards is solar and masculine. The serpent with its head downwards is lunar and is related to the forces of the Fig Tree. It is necessary to raise the fallen serpent. The two serpents were raised upon the reed before the human being departed from Eden. However, when the human being departed from Paradise, Lord Jehovah said to the lunar serpent: 

“Because thou hast done this, thou art cursed above all cattle, and above every beast of the field; Upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy life.” - Genesis: 3: 14) 

We must fight against animal passion (the lunar serpent) and bruise its heel, because it has bruised our head. We must fight against the victorious beast. We must transmute our sexual energy in order to raise the fallen serpent. Angels have the two polarities of their sexual energy, masculine and feminine, flowing upwardly towards their head. Present Human beings have their sexual energy divided. While the solar, masculine, positive current ascends, the lunar, feminine (represented in the Fig Tree), negative sexual current descends. It is necessary to raise the negative pole of our sexual force. This lunar serpent, this fallen serpent, this passionate serpent, must be raised upon the reed in order to ignite the fire. For this we must learn to control the feminine principles represented in the Fig Tree, in order to achieve the birth of the Child of Gold of Sexual Alchemy (Christ). The two serpents (two currents) must flow upwardly towards the head, just as the Angels. Thus, this is how we prepare the two serpents of the Caduceus of Mercury (Spinal Medulla) for the advent of the fire of the Holy Spirit. 

“And then shall appear the sign of the Son of man (the Child of Alchemy ) in heaven: and then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. And he shall send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other. Now learn a parable of the fig tree; When his branch is yet tender, and putteth forth leaves, ye know that summer is nigh: So likewise ye, when ye shall see all these things, know that it is near, even at the doors. Verily I say unto you, This generation shall not pass, till all these things be fulfilled.” - Matthew 24:30-34
