Fourth Way

(or Fourth Path) There are four basic kinds of spiritual schools: 

The path of the Fakir: those who seek union with God through willpower and physicality; this includes those who practice Hatha Yoga , physical austerities (tapas), etc. 

The path of the Monk: those who seek union with God through emotion, the heart; this includes those who practice Bhakti Yoga , whose religion is prayer, or music or devotional practices. 

The path of the Yogi: those who seek union with God through the intellect, the brain; this includes those who practice Jnana Yoga , who study and memorize theories and doctrines, or through various forms of Meditation . 

The path of the well-balanced human being: includes those schools and religions which unify all three paths in one, under the equilibrating influence of Chastity , and guided by the Three Factors: birth, death and sacrifice. 

"When referring to the schools of the Fourth Way, we find that Gurdjieff, Ouspensky, and Nicoll had written what they knew, but their expositions suffer from many mistakes. For example, Gurdjieff committed the error of mistaking the Kundalini with the abominable Kundabuffer organ, and Ouspensky committed the same error. We cannot desist recognizing the existence of that blind fohatic force that has people hypnotized; yet this one has nothing to do with the Kundalini , but with the Kundabuffer that is the lunar fire. The Bible refers to the forty-four fires, but only two great fires can be spoken of: Kundalini and Kundabuffer. The Kundalini is the Pentecostal fire, the lightning of Vulcan ascending through the dorsal spine, the positive fire that crystallizes in worlds and suns. Its antithesis is the Kundabuffer, the negative fire that crystallizes in those psychological aggregates, those quarrelling and screaming “I’s” that we carry within and which are negative crystallizations that have people immersed into unconsciousness. Gurdjieff also committed the error of not speaking about the Lunar Bodies that everyone has. He only says that we must transform the Being and that we must build the Solar Bodies. Ouspensky speaks about the Second Birth, but his teachings are incomplete. To begin with, the Solar Bodies have to be built in the Ninth Sphere, thus reaching the Second Birth. But neither Gurdjieff nor Ouspensky give the clue. The school of the Fourth Way is very ancient; it comes from the archaic lands. It is the foundation of the great mysteries and is found alive in Gnosticism, and in the religions of the Egyptians, Lemurians, Atlanteans, Phoenicians, etc. One has to tread the path by that Fourth Way. We need to march with equilibrium in science, philosophy, art, and religion. In the staged arts of long ago, the individual would receive information in his three brains : motor, emotional, and intellectual. In the schools of today however, only the intellectual brain receives information. Neurosis and the sick states of the mind are due to this. Mental disequilibrium is avoided by balancing the three brains ." - Samael Aun Weor, Tarot and Kabbalah
