Kanda

(Sanskrit) 

"This is situated between the anus and the root of the reproductory organ. It is like the shape of an egg and is covered with membranes. This is just above the Muladhara Chakra. All the Nadis of the body spring from this Kanda. It is in the junction where Sushumna is connected with Muladhara Chakra. The four petals of the Muladhara Chakra are on the sides of this Kanda and the junction is called Granthi-Sthana, where the influence of Maya is very strong. In some Upanishads you will find that Kanda is 9 digits above the genitals. Kanda is a centre of the Astral body from where Yoga Nadis, subtle channels, spring and carry the Sukshma Prana (vital energy) to the different parts of the body. Corresponding to this centre, you have ‘Cauda equina’ in the gross physical body. The spinal cord extending from the brain to the end of the vertebral column tapers off into a fine silken thread. Before its termination it gives off innumerable fibres, crowded into a bunch of nerves. This bunch of nerves is ‘Cauda equina’ in the gross body. The astral centre of ‘Cauda equina’ is Kanda." - Swami Sivananda, Kundalini Yoga 

"Prana circulates throughout all of our nadis and vital canals. All of the 72,000 nadis of our organism have their fundamental base on the nadi Kanda. The nadi Kanda is situated between the sexual organs and the anus. The Kanda collects all of the sexual energy that circulates throughout the 72,000 canals of our organism. The sexual energy is Prana, life. The Angel Aroch (Angel of Power) taught us the Pranava KANDIL, BANDIL, R for the awakening of Devi- Kundalini . These mantras act over the Kanda, reinforcing the vibration of Prana. Thus, the spouse of Shiva, who is coiled in the chakra Muladhara, is awakened when Prana is reinforced. The correct chanting pronunciation of this Pranava is as follows: KAN dil..... BAN dil..... Rrrrrrrrrrr…… KAN is pronounced aloud. DIL is pronounced with a low voice. BAN is pronounced aloud. DIL is pronounced with a low voice. The letter R has to be rolled and acutely pronounced, imitating the sound produced by the rattles of the rattlesnake. This is how the Prana is reinforced, so that from the Kanda, from where the Shushumna nadi and the chakra Muladhara are joined, Devi- Kundalini awakens. The Kanda is precisely situated in the same point where the nadi Shushumna and the chakra Muladhara join. This is why the Pranava of the Angel Aroch acts so intensely over the Kundalini . The Kanda nourishes itself with the sexual organs. The Kanda has its physiological correspondence in the “cauda equina” of the spinal medulla... The Kanda is found situated within the chakra Muladhara." - Samael Aun Weor, Kundalini Yoga : The Mysteries of the Fire
