Keys of Saint Peter

“The Intimate Christ always instructs Peter. The Intimate Christ reveals the Mysteries to Peter. The Intimate Christ has the power in order to perfect Peter in all his splendour. The Lord gives all the Mysteries of all the regions of the Father and all the regions of the First Mystery to the interior Peter within each one of us. Consequently, the secret Peter of each one of us is interesting. He, who Peter admits on earth, shall be admitted into the Light of the height, and he who Peter expels on earth, shall be expelled from the Kingdom of the Father in Heaven. It is clear that Peter is the Hierophant of sex within ourselves. Therefore, he has the power to open or to close the doors of Heaven in ourselves, and within ourselves. Verily, verily, I say unto you that Peter has the keys of the Kingdom. The secret power that opens or closes the doors of Eden is in sex. The sexual energy, when correctly orientated, opens the doors of Paradise. The creative energy, when incorrectly orientated, closes the doors of Paradise. sulfur and Mercury are the two keys of the Kingdom. These two keys, one of Gold and the other of Silver, form a Cross in the hands of Peter.” - Samael Aun Weor, The Pistis Sophia Unveiled 

“Then with his sword he traced upon my brow the scars of seven P’s. “Once entered here, be sure you cleanse away these wounds,” he said. Ashes, or earth when it is dug up dry - this was the colour of the robes he wore; he reached beneath them and drew out two keys. One key was silver and the other gold; first he applied the white one, then the yellow - with that the gate responded to my wish. “Whenever either one of these two keys fails to turn properly inside the lock,” the angel said, “the road ahead stays closed. One is more precious, but the other needs wisdom and skill before it will unlock, for it is that one which unties the knot. I hold these keys from Peter, who advised: ‘Admit too many, rather than too few, if they but cast themselves before your feet.’” Then, pushing back the portal’s holy door, “Enter,” he said to us, “but first be warned: to look back means to go back out again.” - Dante's The Divine Comedy, Purgatory IX
