King of Kings

( Hebrew , "Malachim Meleck") 
Genesis 32:24 says: And Jacob was left alone (with the consuming fire of Yesod ); and there with him (in his sex) wrestled an Ish (the consuming fire within the heart of every man that was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he doth judge and make war. Revelation 19: 11) until the breaking of the day (the awakening of Nachash the Serpent Kundalini ). 25: And when he (Samael, the fire of Yesod -Scorpio) saw that he prevailed not (through the venom blood) against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh (his Sex); and the hollow of Jacob's thigh was out of joint (his sexual fires disjointed his animal appetites), as he wrestled with him (whose eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns; and he had a name written, that no man knew, but he himself. And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood: and his name is called The Word of God . And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean. And out of his mouth goes a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the nations: and he shall rule them with a rod of iron Revelation 19: 12-14) 26: And he (Samael) said, Let me go, for the day breaks (because Samael in Yesod treads the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God [El Shaddai] Revelation 19: 15). And he said, I will not let thee go, except thou bless me. 27: And he (Samael the Spirit of Fire) said unto him, what is thy name? And he said, Jacob. 28: And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel: for as a prince hast thou power with Elohim (Samael Sabaoth) and with (the fire within the venom of blood of) men, and hast prevailed. 29: And (Samael hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written, King of Kings [Malachim Meleck in Aries], and Lord of Lords [Adonai Sabaoth in Scorpio] Revelation 19:16 and) Jacob asked him, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, thy name (he had a name written, that no man knew, but he himself). And he said, wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name? And he (Samael) blessed him there. 30: And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel ( l)ynp Peni-El, the Penis God ): for I have (the willpower that controls the fires of Sex in the Pineal Gland, which is the Third Eye that has) seen God (the Holy Spirit) face to face, and my life (in Yesod ) is preserved.
