Krishna

(Sanskrit कृष्ण) Literally, "black" or "dark blue." Krishna is a central figure in Indian (Hindu) spirituality. His life bears a remarkable similarity to that of Jesus of Nazareth. His most famous teaching is expressed in the Bhagavad-Gita. Krishna is an incarnation of Vishnu (in Kabbalah , the sephirah Chokmah ), and is therefore a representation of Christ. 
"Understand that Christ is a cosmic force, the Second Logos, a Perfect Multiple Unity: as the electricity is energy, Christ is also energy; as the universal gravity is a force, Christ is also a force, a force as the force of fire, or as the force of water, or as the force of air, etc. Christ is a force, and can express itself through any man or woman (since women have the same rights of men) who is duly prepared, and that is all. If it is true that Christ expressed itself and continues expressing itself through the great Kabir Jesus, it is also true that Christ also expressed itself through our Lord Quetzalcoatl. Therefore it is worthwhile to read the life, passion, death, and resurrection of the blessed Quetzalcoatl. Moreover, if it is true that Christ resplendently shone in Quetzalcoatl, it is also true that Christ shone resplendently on mount Nebo upon the face of Moses, and it is also true that Christ sang the sacred “Song of God ” (Bhagavad-Gita) in India when incarnated within the Avatar named Krishna. Comprehend that the Cosmic Christ expresses itself wherever there is a human being (a Buddha) who is duly prepared. Christ is not an individual, Christ is not a person, Christ is not an “I”; Christ is a cosmic force that is latent within every atom of the universe. Christ is the universal fire of life, and this is very important to understand, because Christ is Fire." - Samael Aun Weor, The Major Mysteries 
"When one studies the Gospel of Krishna the Hindu Christ, one is astonished upon discovering the same Gospel of Jesus. However, Krishna was born many centuries before Jesus. Devaki, the Hindu virgin, conceived Krishna by the action and grace of the Holy Spirit. The child- God Krishna was transported to the stable of Nanden and the gods and angels came to adore him. The life, passion, and death of Krishna are similar to that of Jesus." - Samael Aun Weor, The Revolution of the Dialectic 
"The reason that Krishna is described as black or dark blue can be seen when you study the night sky. Christ is the origin of all life, it is the field upon which everything lives, blossoms, and grows. To us, the night sky is black, which is very odd when you consider that the sky, the universe, is filled with suns that irradiate enormous volumes of light. How could that huge quantity of light be black? It is illogical. If the universe is filled with glowing suns that are emitting immeasurable amounts of light, why would it be black? It is only black because we do not have the eyes to see that light. It is too bright; we are blind to it. We cannot see it. It is a level of luminosity that is beyond our vision; it is black to us. But, if we had the eyes that could see it, the universe would not be black. Krishna is called the 'Black God ' in the same way that amongst the Egyptians Osiris is called a black God . His spouse is Nut, Isis, the Divine Mother, who is the sky filled with stars, that fundamental emptiness from which stars are born. Krishna / Christ is the light that emerges in the darkness. The darkness does not understand the light. Our mind, our perception, does not comprehend the light of Krishna / Christ. It is so bright at we only see black." -  Krishna: the God of Love, Sex and Yoga
