Kula

Sanskrit कुल "family, clan, group." 
The word kula is used in Asian traditions to indicate any type of family or grouping, whether philosophically or figuratively. Kula is related to Kulachara, "tradition, duty, or practice of a group or family," used to describe certain forms of spiritual practice in worship of the Divine Mother. 

"The Kula are Jiva [individual soul], Prakriti [Divine Mother], space, time, ether, earth, water, fire, and air. O Primeval One! the realization that all this is one with Brahman [the Absolute] is Kulachara , and produces [the fourfold purpose of life]: Dharmma [truth], Artha [fulfillment of purpose], Kama [love], and Moksha [liberation from suffering]..." - Adya-Kali-Svarupa 

  
Kula Tradition 
The word kula is used in a very deceptive way by a group that presents themselves as a "spiritual family" called Kula. The Kula or Kaula tradition worships the Hindu goddess Kali Ma. 
Kali Ma symbolizes the Divine Mother. She has two primary aspects, both of which have the aim of liberating souls from the impurities that cause suffering: 

the positive aspect of Kali destroys the causes of suffering for the initiates of White Tantra; she does this by means of (1) their ethics (yama and niyama), their refusal to commit impure actions, (2) their conscious understanding of karma, and (3) their preserved sexual power, acquired through brahmacharya, saucha, and Oordhvareta . In this way the initiates of White Tantra are liberated here and now from the kleshas and samskaras, and thus are liberated from devolving in the hell realms, so they can rise upwards. 
the negative aspect of Kali destroys the causes of suffering by pulling souls into the hell realm; she does this by tempting them to indulge in their desires through Black Tantra, and to commit more and more harmful actions, building up a trajectory of degeneration that will result in death and the descent into the hell realms, where she will purify them through centuries of pain and suffering, after which they will return to the world to try again, clean, but having gained nothing from centuries of suffering. 

The Kula group worships Kali Ma in her negative aspect, and therefore they encourage and indulge in any actions that accelerate their descent into the hell realms: black tantra, sexual depravity, black magic, lies, deception, and filthiness. Under the veil of "family," they lead souls into degeneration and suffering. 

The order of Kula and its Goddess Kali has its origin in Atlantean black magic. Yet, in this day and age, the order of this cult of the Goddess Kali has its headquarters in India. 
Thus this is how, by means of this black tantric cult, the negative serpent (the tempting serpent of Eden) awakens and descends towards the atomic infernos of the human being and becomes the Kundabuffer organ, the horrible tail of the demons. This is how the tenebrous Baalim deceive the naive. 
These are “the deeds of the Nicholaitans, which I also hate.” [Revelation 2] 
The Canaanites, the inhabitants of Carthage, Tyre, and Sidon, perished because of these cults. Likewise, these horrible practices were the cause of the sinking of Atlantis. 
Thus, black tantra is the cult with which people are transformed into the seven-headed beasts, which is mentioned in the book of Revelation (Apocalypse). That is the hideous practice that transformed the Lemurian-Atlanteans into monsters. 
Therefore, any instructor who teaches tantra with [orgasm] the spilling of the semen is a black magician. -Samael Aun Weor, The Major Mysteries 

Read about the Kula path: Vashishtha and Buddha
