Abraham

( Hebrew אברהם) The progenitor of Judaism, Islam, and Christianity. From Semitic roots, Abraham means “the divine Father is exalted”: from אב Ab, father; and רהם ram, raham, exalted. 

"Neither shall thy name any more be called Abram [אברם], but thy name shall be Abraham [אברהם]; for a father [אב] of many nations have I made thee." - Genesis 17:5 

In Kabbalah , Abraham represents the sephirah Chesed , our Innermost. 

"When Abraham appeared, as he is the secret of Chesed ..." - Zohar 

"For it is written, that Abraham (Abba, the Father, Iod in Yesod ) had two sons, the one by a bondmaid (the fallen Eve-Venus, the lunar serpent Od, Ida = Agar the lunar female force that instinctively procreates in Egypt, Matzarim, the World of Malkuth , Assiah), the other by a freewoman (Zain, Urania-Venus, Sa-Ra the Female Adept from Nirvana, the Mother of Isaac, the Son of Man in Daath ). But he who was of the bondwoman was born (in Malkuth ) after (the blood of) the flesh; but he (the Bodhichitta within the bodhisattva ) of the freewoman was by (sexual transmutation, and this is the) promise (of Shaddai-El-Chai, the Holy Spirit). Which things (women) are an allegory: for these are the two covenants; the one from the Mount Sinai, which genders to bondage, which is Agar (Egypt, Matzarim, Assiah). For this Agar (Egypt, Matzarim, Assiah) is Mount Sinai in Arabia, and answers to (the terrestrial) Jerusalem which now is (was and will be Malkuth , Egypt, Matzarim, Assiah), and is in bondage with her children (within the wheel of evolution and devolution in Samsara). But (the Heavenly) Jerusalem which is above (the Sephirah Malkuth , Egypt, Matzarim, Assiah) is free, which is the mother of us all (in Yesod the Fourth Dimension). For it is written, Rejoice, thou barren that bear not; break forth and cry, thou that travails not: for the desolate (Eve-Venus, the fallen lunar force in Malkuth ) has many more children than she (Urania-Venus, the creative sexual force that rises to the Pineal Gland) which has a husband (the Holy Spirit). Now we, (Gnostic) brethren, as Isaac was, are the children of (Shaddai-El-Chai, the Holy Spirit through sexual transmutation, and this is the) promise. But as then he (the fornicator) that was born after the flesh persecuted him that was born (through sexual transmutation) after the (Holy) Spirit (the sexual creative force of Shaddai-El-Chai), even so it is now. Nevertheless what says the scripture? Cast out the bondwoman and her son (into Malkuth , the Wheel of Samsara): for the son (the soul dressed with lunar protoplasmic bodies) of the bondwoman (Eve-Venus, the fallen lunar force in Malkuth ) shall not be heir with the son (the soul dressed with solar bodies) of the freewoman. So then, (Gnostic) brethren, we are not children of the bondwoman (Eve-Venus, the fallen lunar force in Malkuth ), but of the free (sexual forces of SA and RA, which become the Divine Princess Kundalini that rises victoriously to the brain)." - Galatians 4: 22-31
