Aelohim

( Hebrew אאלהים) 
"The Interior Elohim is the ray that emanates from Aelohim. Aelohim is the Omnimerciful, the Cosmic Common Eternal Father, the Abstract Absolute Space... Aelohim is the infinitude that sustains all." - Samael Aun Weor, The Pistis Sophia Unveiled 
From the lecture Christ, the Mystery of the Light : ""In Pistis Sophia , the Gnostic bible, Master Samael Aun Weor states that Elohim - which is that divinity which is three, namely: אל "El", אלה "Elah", אלהים "Elohim" - within the absolute is אלהים אין "Ain-Elohim" or "Aelohim", which means the trinity within the Abstract Absolute Space. "Ain-Elohim" is the Unmanifested Seity. From Aelohim emerges Elohim, which is the manifested deity. Elohim is a plural name, which means "gods and goddesses." Thus, behold Aelohim is the root of Elohim. This is useful in comprehending the sexuality explained in many myths of Gods with Goddesses, and as a foundation for the creation of the different stories in Greek, Hebrew , or any other mythology. 
בראשית בר אאלהים את השמים ואת הארץ - Genesis 1:1 
"These Hebrew words are the first words of the Bible and can be translated as "Barashith Bar AElohim at Ha-Schamayim Ve-At Ha-Aretz" that is to say: "In the beginning the Son of AElohim was in the heavens and in the Earth." The first three words of the Bible "Barashith Bera Elohim" are usually translated as 'In the beginning God created'. The word "Bera" means creation and is written with three letters: Beth , Resh and Aleph ; yet the word "Bar", which means Son in Aramaic, is written only with two letters: Beth , Resh . So, when we take the Aleph out from "Bera" and move it close to Elohim, then the sentence is spelled "Bar Aelohim" or "the Son of Aelohim". Thus, we read: "In the beginning the Son of AElohim was IN the Heavens and IN the Earth". This Son of AElohim - which is the uncreated light - is Christ, as we explained here. It is equal to the Greek trinity: Uranus-Heaven, Gaia-Earth, and Eros-Love, Light. Thus, Eros, or Christ, as power, is intelligence within the Abstract Absolute Space, in the seventh dimension. That is why the book of Genesis states that Elohim- the outcome of the uncreated light - saw that "Eros", the created light, was good. That light is Christ, the Ain Soph Aur."
