Almznoshinoo

"In high esotericism there is a sacrament that is called “Almznoshinoo.” Thanks to that sacrament, a master can live materialized in Euclid’s three-dimensional world for one year after the death of his physical body to instruct his disciples. The Almznoshinoo sacrament is tremendous. When a master wants to instruct his disciples in the physical world after losing his physical body, he can do it by materializing his astral body and making it visible to his disciples, provided he has carried out the Almznoshinoo sacrament. The adeptus will put a little of his blood in a chalice and his disciples will put a little of their blood in the chalice, too. They will mix that blood and will celebrate a very special ritual during which each of them will drink blood from the chalice and the Almoadzano sacrament will take place. 
"This deserves a precise and clear scientific explanation. In arterial human blood there is the Being’s Hanbledzoïn (astral blood or particles of subtle blood that correspond to the astral world). The liturgy, combined with the blood operation I have mentioned, enters in the astral part of each person who has celebrated the sacrament. So, the Hanbledzoïn of each disciple enters the master and the Hanbledzoïn of the Being of the master enters all the disciples. To say it more clearly, the astral blood contained in the physical blood will reach the astral part of the disciples and the master. This is the only way for the master to be able to materialize himself after the death of his physical body and to live here with his astral body in Euclid’s three-dimensional world, in this dense world… The first is the region of the light, the second is the region of darkness, "where only wailing and gnashing of teeth are heard." Thus, the astral world is a fohatic world (angelic and diabolic) and this is something we must understand." -Samael Aun Weor, The Human Being and the Universe That Surrounds Us 


“I will tell you about this important event, connected with the actualization among them of this Sacred Individual, the notion about which the contemporary favorites of yours define by the words ‘The Death and Resurrection of Jesus Christ.’ 
“Your acquaintance with this fact will be another example for you for enlightening you about the sense and essential significance of the sacred sacrament Almznoshinoo, and in addition you will also have a clear example of what I have already told, how—thanks only to the strange inherency in their general psyche, called wiseacring—the sense of even those crumbs ‘collected-from-bits-here-and-there-into-one-whole’ spoken and indicated to them by the genuine Sacred Individuals intentionally actualized among them from Above, were already so distorted by the first generation of the contemporaries of the given Sacred Individuals, that from all what they call religious teachings information reached the beings of subsequent generations suitable perhaps only for the inventing of what are called ‘children’s fairy tales.’ 
“The point is, that when this Sacred Individual Jesus Christ was actualized in the planetary body of a terrestrial three-brained being, and when afterwards He had to be separated from his exterior planetary coating, then just this same sacred process ‘Almznoshinoo’ was also produced on his body Kesdjan by certain terrestrial three-brained beings in order to have the possibility—in view of the violent interruption of his planetary existence—of continuing to communicate with his Divine Reason and of obtaining in this way the information about certain cosmic Truths and certain instructions for the future which he did not finish giving them. 
“The information about what is called ‘the Lord’s Supper’ given in the ‘noted totality,’ still existing today among your contemporary favorites, representing as it were the real accurate history of this Sacred Individual, and which is called by them the ‘Holy Writ,’ was nothing else but a preparation for the great sacrament Almznoshinoo on the body Kesdjan of Saint Jesus Christ. 
“In order that you may better represent and make clear to yourself the genuine individuality of this Judas, and the significance of his manifestation for the future, I must first still inform you that when this Sacred Individual Jesus Christ, intentionally actualized from Above in a planetary body of a terrestrial being, completely formed Himself for a corresponding existence, He decided to actualize the mission imposed on Him from Above, through the way of enlightening the reason of these three-brained terrestrial beings, by means of twelve different types of beings, chosen from among them and who were specially enlightened and prepared by him personally. 
“And so, in the very heat of His Divine Activities, surrounding circumstances independent of Him were so arranged, that not having carried out His intention, i.e., not having had time to explain certain cosmic truths and to give the required instructions for the future, He was compelled to allow the premature cessation of his planetary existence to be accomplished. 
“He then decided, together with these twelve terrestrial beings intentionally initiated by Him, to have recourse to the sacred sacrament Almznoshinoo—the process of the actualization of which sacred sacrament was already well known to all of them, as they had already acquired in their presences all the data for its fulfillment—so that He should have the possibility, while He still remained in such a cosmic individual state, to finish the preparation begun by Him for the fulfillment of the plan designed for actualization of the mission imposed on Him from Above. 
“And so, my boy, when having decided on this and being ready to begin the preliminary preparation required for this sacred sacrament, it then became clear that it was utterly impossible to do this, as it was too late; they were all already surrounded by beings, called ‘guards,’ and their arrest and everything that would follow from it was expected at any moment. And it was just here that this Judas, now a Saint and formerly the inseparable and devoted helper of Jesus Christ and who is ‘hated’ and ‘cursed’ owing to the naïve nonreasonableness of the peculiar three-brained beings of your planet, manifested himself and rendered his great objective service for which terrestrial three-brained beings of all subsequent generations should be grateful. 
“This wise, onerous, and disinterestedly devoted manifestation taken upon himself consisted in this, that while in a state of desperation on ascertaining that it was impossible to fulfill the required preliminary procedure for the actualization of the sacred Almznoshinoo, this Judas, now a Saint, leaped from his place and hurriedly said: 
“‘I shall go and do everything in such a way that you should have the possibility of fulfilling this sacred preparation without hindrance, and meanwhile set to work at once.’ 
“Having said this, he approached Jesus Christ and having confidentially spoken with Him a little and received His blessing, hurriedly left. 
“The others, indeed without hindrance, finished everything necessary for the possibility of accomplishing this sacred process Almznoshinoo..." - Guirdjieff, All and Everything
