Anger

A psychological element of hostility or violence. In Christianity, one of the seven capital sins. In Buddhism, anger (hate, aggression) is depicted as one of the three core defects upon which the entire Wheel of Samsara rotates. According to the Paramitas, anger is the chief obstacle in the development of patience (ksanti). Samael Aun Weor stated that anger (hate) must be transmuted into its pure form: love, which is related to Mars (Samael). 

“There are three gates to self-destructive hell: lust, anger, and greed.” - Bhagavad Gita 16.21 
Finding its fuel in the foul state of mind That arises from its bringing about things I don’t want And its preventing what I wish, Anger, once enflamed, destroys me. - Bodhicharyavatara by Shantideva 
Why, sir, do you get angry at someone who is angry with you? What are you going to gain by it? How is he going to lose by it? Your physical anger brings dishonor on yourself; Your mental anger disturbs your thinking. How can the fire in your house burn the neighbor’s house Without engulfing your own? - Hinduism. Basavanna, Vachana 248 
“The psychic aggregates of anger are multiple. There is anger because of jealousy, because of hatred, because of frustrated desires, because of selfish monetary motives, because of disputed matters, because of terror, or because of various states of spirit, mind, body, and tongue, etc... Anger is associated with many psychic aggregates. The angry one fails in the Great Work of the Father.” - Samael Aun Weor, The Pistis Sophia Unveiled 
“One needs serenity in order to have clairvoyance. In order to see in the Internal Worlds, one has to not allow oneself to be driven by anger, because anger destroys the frontal chakra. Therefore, serenity is required.” - Samael Aun Weor, Tarot and Kabbalah 
“Anger is the violent outcome of frustrated desire... Anger, rancor, and hatred are distinct forms of desire that are transmuted into supreme sweetness, infinite pardon, and supreme love.” - Samael Aun Weor, Fundamental Notions of Endocrinology & Criminology 
"When reason ends, then anger begins. Therefore, anger is a sign of weakness." - 14th Dalai Lama
