Anupadaka

(Sanskrit) "Parentless, self-existing."  
"The term Anupadaka, "parentless," or without progenitors, is a mystical designation having several meanings in the philosophy. By this name celestial beings, the Dhyan-Chohans or Dhyani-Buddhas, are generally meant. But as these correspond mystically to the human Buddhas and Bodhisattwas, known as the "Manushi (or human) Buddhas," the latter are also designated "Anupadaka," once that their whole personality is merged in their compound sixth and seventh principles -- or Atma-Buddhi, and that they have become the "diamond-souled" (Vajra-sattvas),* the full Mahatmas. The "Concealed Lord" (Sangbai Dag-po), "the one merged with the absolute," can have no parents since he is Self-existent, and one with the Universal Spirit (Svayambhu),** the Svabhavat in the highest aspect. The mystery in the hierarchy of the Anupadaka is great, its apex being the universal Spirit-Soul, and the lower rung the Manushi-Buddha; and even every Soul-endowed man is an Anupadaka in a latent state. Hence, when speaking of the Universe in its formless, eternal, or absolute condition, before it was fashioned by the "Builders" -- the expression, "the Universe was Anupadaka. [...] ...the Logos (the first), or Vajradhara, the Supreme Buddha (also called Dorjechang). As the Lord of all Mysteries he cannot manifest, but sends into the world of manifestation his heart -- the "diamond heart," Vajrasattva (Dorjesempa). This is the second logos of creation, from whom emanate the seven (in the exoteric blind the five) Dhyani Buddhas, called the Anupadaka, "the parentless." These Buddhas are the primeval monads from the world of incorporeal being, the Arupa world, wherein the Intelligences (on that plane only) have neither shape nor name, in the exoteric system, but have their distinct seven names in esoteric philosophy. These Dhyani Buddhas emanate, or create from themselves, by virtue of Dhyana, celestial Selves -- the super-human bodhisattvas . These incarnating at the beginning of every human cycle on earth as mortal men, become occasionally, owing to their personal merit, bodhisattvas among the Sons of Humanity, after which they may re-appear as Manushi (human) Buddhas. The Anupadaka (or Dhyani-Buddhas) are thus identical with the Brahminical Manasaputra, "mind-born sons" -- whether of Brahma or either of the other two Trimurtian Hypostases, hence identical also with the Rishis and Prajapatis. Thus, a passage is found in Anugita, which, read esoterically, shows plainly, though under another imagery, the same idea and system. It says: "Whatever entities there are in this world, moveable or immoveable, they are the very first to be dissolved (at pralaya); and next the developments produced from the elements (from which the visible Universe is fashioned); and, after these developments (evolved entities), all the elements. Such is the upperward gradation among entities. Gods, Men, Gandharvas, Pisachas, Asuras, Rakshasas, all have been created by Svabhava (Prakriti, or plastic nature), not by actions, nor by a cause" -- i.e., not by any physical cause." - H.P. Blavatsky, The Secret Doctrine (1888) 
"From the Unknowable Entirety or Radical Zero, the Pythagorean Monad, the Verb, the Arch-Magi or Hierophant, the Unique-One, the Buddhist Aunadad-Ad, the Ain Soph, En Soph or Chaldean Pneuma-Eikon, the Ruach Elohim or divine Spirit of the Lord floating upon the Genesiac waters, the one who exists by himself, Anupadaka, or the Aryan Manu-Swayambu-Narayana, emanates in the beginning of any manifestation or universe." - Samael Aun Weor, The Three Mountains 
"Some eastern authors think that Anupadaka — that is to say, the Buddha of Contemplation (because of the fact of being in itself the Father-Mother, the glorious complement of any terrestrial bodhisattva ) — is Fatherless and Motherless. This concept seems wrong to me, because any Buddha of Contemplation, any Father-Mother (a glorious complement of the bodhisattva ) obviously has emanated from the eternal, common, cosmic Father (this must be understood) and of the unmanifested Divine Mother, the unmanifested Prakriti. The cosmic, common, eternal Father is dual, is Father-Mother in itself. In turn, from it emanates the Buddha of Contemplation, who is the particular Father-Mother of any bodhisattva , and you all must understand this… Therefore, I do not think that Anupadaka, the Father-Mother, is an orphan. I think that the inner Father-Mother of each one of us emanates from the eternal, common, cosmic Father-Mother, that is coessential with Absolute Abstract Space. So, I allow myself to dissent with some authors regarding the term “Anupadaka" — that is, the Buddha of Contemplation — being devoid of Father and Mother, just for the fact of being in himself the Father and Mother of a bodhisattva . Indeed, Anupadaka is something more than that. Anupadaka is the Buddha of Contemplation that has emanated from the eternal, common, cosmic Father-Mother." - Samael Aun Weor,  Seven Minds and Seven Truths
