Ape

"Behold, then, in the modern denizens of the great forests of Sumatra
the degraded and dwarfed examples -- "blurred copies,"
as Mr. Huxley has it -- of ourselves, as we (the majority of mankind)
were in the earliest sub-races of the Fourth Root-race during
the period of what is called the "Fall into generation."
The ape we know is not the product of natural evolution but an
accident, a cross-breed between an animal being, or form,
and man. As has been shown in the present volume (anthropogenesis),
it is the speechless animal that first started sexual connection,
having been the first to separate into males and females. Nor
was it intended by Nature that man should follow the bestial example
-- as shown by the comparatively painless procreation of their
species by the animals, and the terrible suffering and danger
of the same in the woman. The Ape is, indeed, as remarked in Isis
Unveiled (Vol. II 278) "a transformation of species
most directly connected with that of the human family -- a
hybrid branch engrafted on their own stock before the final perfection
of the latter " -- or man. The apes are millions of years
later than the speaking human being, and are the latest contemporaries
of our Fifth Race. Thus, it is most important to remember that
the Egos of the apes are entities compelled by their
Karma to incarnate in the animal forms, which resulted from the
bestiality of the latest Third and the earliest Fourth
Race men. They are entities who had already reached the "human
stage" before this Round. Consequently, they form an exception
to the general rule. The numberless traditions about Satyrs are
no fables, but represent an extinct race of animal men. The animal
"Eves" were their foremothers, and the human "Adams"
their forefathers; hence the Kabalistic allegory of Lilith
or Lilatu, Adam's first wife, whom the Talmud describes
as a charming woman, with long wavy hair, i.e.- -
a female hairy animal of a character now unknown, still a female
animal, who in the Kabalistic and Talmudic allegories is called
the female reflection of Samael, Samael-Lilith, or man-animal
united, a being called Hayo Bischat, the Beast or Evil
Beast ( Zohar ) . It is from this unnatural union
that the present apes descended." - H.P. Blavatsky. The Secret Doctrine
