Aquarius

From Aqua- Aerius "pertaining to water (Aqua) and Aeris (Air),” means, the air (Spirit) as a water carrier. 
The eleventh sign of the zodiac (January 20th to February 18th) . Ruled by Uranus. Related to the element air. 
The Age of Aquarius is an astrological epoch that began the 4th of February in 1962. 
Aquarius pours the Dionysian vibrations of Uranus ( Chokmah ) into the Earth ( Malkuth ) Gnostically, the Dionysian vibrations are the fiery water “Schamayim” or wine from heaven ( Gnosis ) which is poured into the psyche through three ways: 
1: The Lord's Baptism (Sexual Alchemy ): Consubstantiation. Yesod . “Whosoever drinks of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life.” - John 4:14 
2 : The Lord's Supper (Eucharist): Transubstantiation. Hod . “Whosoever eats my flesh, and drinks my blood, has eternal life; and I will raise him/her at the last day; for my flesh is meat indeed, and my blood is drink indeed. He that eats my flesh, and drinks my blood, dwells in me, and I in him.” - John 6:54-56 
3: The Lord’s Incarnation (Anointment): Permutation. Netzach . “The Man (manas: mind) shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God .” - Matthew 4:4 
“And straightway coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens opened, and the Spirit like a dove descending upon him: And there came a voice from heaven, saying, Thou art my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.” - Mark 1:10,11 
“And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father), full of grace and truth.” John 1:14 
“The natives of Aquarius are of strict will and possess a formidable intuition. The natives of Aquarius are friends of independence and dearly love polemics and philosophical discussions. The great leaders of Aquarius are the revolutionaries of the era. Aquarians have a great disposition for all studies of occult wisdom.” - Samael Aun Weor, Manual of Practical Magic
