Aryan Race

The word Aryan is not a term only for "white people" or an ancient, dead civilization, but instead refers to to the vast majority of the population. All modern races are "Aryan." 

“From Sanskrit [=a]rya excellent, honorable; akin to the name of the country Iran, and perh. to Erin, Ireland, and the early name of this people, at least in Asia. 1. One of a primitive people supposed to have lived in prehistoric times, in Central Asia, east of the Caspian Sea, and north of the Hindoo Koosh and Paropamisan Mountains, and to have been the stock from which sprang the Hindoo, Persian, Greek, Latin, Celtic, Teutonic, Slavonic, and other races; one of that ethnological division of mankind called also Indo-European or Indo-Germanic.” - Webster’s Revised Unabridged Dictionary 

While formerly it was believed that the ancient Aryans were European (white), most scientists now believe that the ancient people commonly referred to as Aryan were the original inhabitants of India, which Manu called Aryavarta, "Abode of the Aryans." 

"(Sanskrit) Ārya [from the verbal root ṛ to rise, tend upward] Holy, hallowed, highly evolved or especially trained; a title of the Hindu rishis [initiates]. Originally a term of ethical as well as intellectual and spiritual excellence, belonging to those who had completely mastered the aryasatyani (holy truths) and who had entered upon the aryamarga (path leading to moksha or nirvana). It was originally applicable only to the initiates or adepts of the ancient Aryan peoples, but today Aryan has become the name of a race of the human family in its various branches. All ancient peoples had their own term for initiates or adepts, as for instance among the ancient Hebrews the generic name Israel, or Sons of Israel." - Theosophical Glossary 

The word aryan is noted for its close relationship with Ares or Mars, the God of War. Compare with "AquAryan" and "barbAryan." The Aryan race, the fifth great race to exist on this planet, is under the guidance of Ares, Mars, the fifth of the "Seven Spirits before the Throne of God ." 

"Every Root Race has seven Subraces. The seed of our Aryan Root Race is Nordic, but when the Nordics mixed themselves with the Atlantean survivors, they gave origin onto the Subraces of the Aryan trunk. 
"First Subrace: It flourished in central Asia, in those now vanished kingdoms of central Asia, and whose ruins still exist in the Himalayas around the country of Tibet. Powerful spiritual civilizations of the first Aryan Subrace existed in those regions. 
Second Subrace: It flourished in India and the entire south of Asia. In Pearland, the sacred land of the Vedas, in the ancient Hindustan, where the second Aryan Subrace developed, formidable esoteric cultures and tremendous civilizations existed. 
Third Subrace: It created powerful civilizations. Babylon, Chaldea, Egypt, etc., etc. were the scenario of very rich and powerful civilizations created by the third Aryan Subrace. 
Fourth Subrace: It developed in Rome, Greece, Italy, and Athens, the great city founded by the Goddess Athena. Before their degeneration and destruction, Greece and Italy were marvelous scenarios where the powerful civilizations of the fourth Aryan Subrace developed. 
Fifth Subrace: Are the Anglo-Saxon and Teutonic. The First and Second World Wars, with all of their barbarism and moral corruption, point with their accusatory fingers to the men and women of the fifth Aryan Subrace. 
Sixth Subrace: The mixture of the Spanish Conquistadors with the Native-American tribes. The effort to form the sixth Subrace in the redskin territory was very difficult, because the English Conquistadors destroyed them; they assassinated them, instead of mixing themselves with the natives. Only in a very insignificant and incipient way was the mixture of blood performed. This is why the Occult Fraternity saw the necessity of converting the North American territory into a melting crucible of races. So, the formation of the sixth Subrace in the United States had enormous difficulties; there, all the races of the world have mixed. The sixth Subrace in Latin America was formed very easily and this is something that must not be ignored by the treatisers of anthropogenesis and occultism. 
Seventh Subrace: The survivors of the new great cataclysm that soon will destroy this Aryan Root Race will be formed by the survivors of the Seventh Subrace; they still do not exist, but they will. 
So, this Aryan Root Race, instead of evolving, has devolved, and its corruption is now worse than that of the Atlanteans in their epoch. Its wickedness is so great that it has reached unto heaven." - Samael Aun Weor, The Kabbalah of the Mayan Mysteries 

"...our current fifth root race, the Aryan multitudes who inhabit the face of the Earth, separated from its parent stem (the Atlantean), has already more than a million years of existence and is on the verge of total annihilation." —Samael Aun Weor, The Secret Doctrine of Anahuac
