Azoth

In Alchemy , Azoth is the life principle of all metals. Azoth is most known in relation to Paracelsus. 
"The Azoth and the fire clean the brass, that is to say, they clean and completely remove all of its blackness.” —Semita Semitae, by Villanova 
It is commonly stated that the word Azoth is derived from Arabic al-zā'ūq: “the mercury.” While this is relevant, it is not the only important appearance of this word. 
"Behold now, observe הזאת Hazoth (the Azoth) is near, flee to it, and it is small: I pray thee, let me escape thither -- is it not small? -- and my soul shall live." - Genesis 19: 20 
"And Adam said, זאת zo'th [is] now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh: זאת zo'th shall be called אשה 'ishshah, because זאת zo'th was taken out of איש 'iysh." - Genesis 2:23 
איש + זאת = Ish-Zoth = Azoth. This has been explained in the course on Alchemy .  
"...Sulphur, Mercury, and Salt, which, volatized and fixed alternately, compose the AZOTH..."   - Eliphas Levi, Transcendental Magic (1856)   
"...the four elements of Alchemy are: Salt, Mercury, Sulfur, and Azoth: the Salt is the matter; the Mercury is the Ens Seminis, the Azoth is the mysterious ray of Kundalini ." - Samael Aun Weor, Alchemy and Kabbalah 
"Whosoever wants to edify the New Jerusalem must first awaken the sacred fire of Kundalini . This Pentecostal serpent is INRI, Azoth." —Samael Aun Weor, The Aquarian Message 
"The Mercury is the metallic soul of the sperm; understand, it is the metallic soul. Allow me to illustrate this better: there are three types of Mercury. The first Mercury is called the Brute Azoth or the sperm. The second Mercury is called the metallic soul of the sperm, and the third Mercury is called Mercury plus Sulfur (Mercury fecundated by fire). To conclude, the Mercury is the metallic soul of the sperm, and the Sulfur is the sacred fire." —Samael Aun Weor, The Major Mysteries 
"The name of Aleph and the sacred name of Thau must be uttered, united in the Kabbalistic name of Azoth... Sophia is found in the sexual Chaos, in the brute Azoth. We must liberate Sophia from within the darkness of the Chaos... The brute Azoth, which is the sacred sperm not yet worked with, is a closed book. We need to open that book." —Samael Aun Weor, The Gnostic Bible: The Pistis Sophia Unveiled   
Alchemists always address three symbolic substances: mercury, sulfur, and salt. Azoth is added as a fourth, mysterious permuting life principle. According to Alchemy : Salt, sulfur, and mercury each have a triune nature, for each of these substances contain, in reality, also the other two substances. Therefore, the body of Salt is threefold: salt, sulfur, and mercury; but in the body of Salt one of the three (salt) predominates. Mercury is likewise composed of salt, sulfur, and mercury with the latter element predominating. Sulfur, similarly, is indeed salt, sulfur, and mercury, with sulfur predominating. The permutation of these nine divisions - 3 times 3 – 9 is done thanks to Azoth, the sacred fire of Kundalini . Azoth is therefore the universal substance, the invisible eternal fire, electricity, magnetism, astral light, the measureless spirit of life, the fiery mercurial essence that flows out from the throne of God and the Lamb, the spinal medulla. This is the River of living water in Eden – Sex, the Genesiac mist of the earth, the igneous particles ‘Hashim’ within the dust of the ground (Adamah) from where God formed the electronic bodies of Adam, the true human being.
