Jahve

( Hebrew יהוה) Often spelled Yahweh, and intentionally confused with Jehovah since they are both spelled the same way in Hebrew : יהוה. While Jehovah is a very positive and potent name of God , Yahve (Jahve) is the name of a demon who has been misleading humanity for ages. 
“In the year 1950, the genie of evil whose name is Javhe entered into the abyss. Javhe is paying a terrible karma. Javhe is a terribly perverse fallen angel. This Javhe is the demon that tempted Jesus in the wilderness while saying “Itababo.” Javhe is the supreme chief of the Black Lodge. Javhe is the secret author of the crucifixion of our adorable saviour. Javhe is the antithetic pole of Jesus. The Roman soldiers who crucified the Beloved One were constituting the honorable guards of Javhe. Thus, this is why Javhe is now crucified within the abyss. This is his karma, the cross of the devil is inverted. Therefore, Javhe is crucified with his head downwards and his feet upwards. The Jewish people worship Javhe, and they follow Javhe. The fifth of the seven “cast him into the bottomless pit, and shut him up, and set a seal upon him, that he should deceive the nations no more, till the thousand years should be fulfilled: and after that he must be loosed a little season.” Javhe and his legions will remain in the abyss a whole age. Afterward, it will be necessary that he be released for a short time. It is necessary to give those that are lost the last opportunity to repent.” - Samael Aun Weor, The Aquarian Message 
"Jahve is a terribly perverse fallen angel. Jahve is the genius of evil. Christ is the leader of the great White Lodge, and Jahve, his antithesis, is the chief of the great Black Lodge. The powers of Light and Darkness live in eternal struggle and that struggle is rooted in sex. The semen is the battlefield. In the semen , angels and demons fight to the death. The medullar bone of the great conflict between angels and demons is sex. There is the problem. There is the root of all the white and black doctrines. Christ has his program of action, Jahve has his. The chosen follow the Christ. The great majority of human beings fanatically follow Jahve. Nevertheless, they all hide behind the cross." - Samael Aun Weor, The Perfect Matrimony 
"Javhe has a very grave karma, since he was the secret perpetrator of the crucifixion of Christ, and he is also directly responsible for the failure of human evolution on the Earth. He has to irremediably pay these old debts, because no one can mock the law with impunity." - Samael Aun Weor, The Revolution of Beelzebub
