Jehovah

( Hebrew יהוה) The four-lettered name of divinity (also called the Tetragrammaton). This name has innumerable interpretations. The name "Jehovah" has many applications, not the least of which is as a name of our own inner Being. 
יהוה is the sacred name of the Sephirah Chokmah in the Tree of Life , Kabbalah . Chokmah is Christ, the Second Logos, the Son of Kether , the Father. Chokmah (Wisdom) in Christianity is represented by Jesus-Christ. 
It can also refer to: 
1) "The supreme leader of the positive ray of the Moon is Jehovah... Jehovah lives normally in Eden. Eden is the ethereal world. Everyone who returns to Eden is received by Lord Jehovah." - Samael Aun Weor, The Perfect Matrimony 
2) "In the Old Testament, the name of Jehovah is applied to the Host of the Cosmocreators or divine Androgynes who created this universe, rather than the original name Iod -Heve." - Samael Aun Weor, The Gnostic Bible: The Pistis Sophia Unveiled 
"JOVE or Iod -EVE in his other aspect is the male-female JEHOVAH, or the collective androgyny of Elohim from the books of Moses, the Adam Kadmon of the Kabbalists, the IA-CHO or INACHO of Anatolia who is also Dionysus, whose vibratory wave has become very intense with the entrance of the Sun into the brilliant constellation of Aquarius... Jesus the great Kabir never surrendered cult to the anthropomorphic Jehovah of the Jewish multitudes... The law of retaliation, “An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth,” from the avenger Jehovah, was overcome by the law of love: “Ye love one another, as I have loved you.” If we scrutinize with mystical enthusiasm the sacred scriptures, we can clearly verify the unmistakable and evident fact that the anthropomorphic Hebraic Jehovah does not appear in any of the four gospels... Unquestionably, the Blessed Lord of Perfections only worshipped his Father who is in secret and his Divine Mother Kundalini . In other words, we will state: the great Kabir Jesus profoundly loved הוהי Iod -HEVE, the divine, interior male-female... י Iod is certainly the particular individual Monad of each one of us, the Hindustani Shiva, the arch-hierophant and arch-magi, the first begotten of creation, the golden fleece, the treasury which we must take hold of after defeating the dragon of darkness... הוה HEVE is the unfolding of י Iod ; Heve is the divine wife of Shiva. She is our individual Mother Kundalini , the sacred cow with five legs, the esoteric mystery of the Pentalpha. Jupiter and his cow of Io (iiiii ooooo), keep in exact concomitance with הוהי Iod -HEVE, the interior Divine Couple of each creature." - Samael Aun Weor, The Three Mountains 
3) Jehovah is Kabbalistically read " Iod -Chavah", this means that Iod (the male willpower of the Holy Spirit in the pineal gland of Adam, the brain) is through Chastity dominating “Chava” (the female power of the Holy Spirit - Eve, “the Mother of the Living” - the sexual organs). Thus, the brain is dominating sex. 
"In these times of the end, that great initiate from the past Mahamanvantara (called in Cosmogony “Mahamanvantara of Padma or Lotus of Gold”) has sent his bodhisattva to the Earth. The name of that great initiate is very well known in the Old Testament. He is the Biblical Jehovah ; he is the most exalted Being of the Ancient Lunar Chain, the Governor of the Ancient Moon-Earth. It has been stated to us that the Master Jehovah sent his bodhisattva to Chile, yes, the bodhisattva of the Lord Jehovah was born in Chile South America within a humble family of working peasants. At the present time (1970), he is a young boy that is behaving foolishly. The bodhisattva of Lord Jehovah had a joyful, simple and easy infancy and adolescence. However, now he is a youngster and this worries us, because of what his modern surroundings are like and the types of friends he could have in these times. In these moments this youngster lives in a certain city; obviously, he is doing the same inappropriate nonsense as all the other youths of this epoch. If the reincarnation of this bodhisattva becomes a success, then the great Master Jehovah will incarnate within his bodhisattva and will perform a Great Work. So, this Master is only waiting for the bodhisattva to mature in order to penetrate within him. Jehovah is the Regent of the ancient moon. He is a great Master that has been intentionally confused with Javhe, who is the chief of the Black Lodge." - Samael Aun Weor
