Jews

( Hebrew , from יהודי Yĕhuwdiy) 

"I know thy works, and tribulation, and poverty, (but thou art rich) and I know the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews, and are not, but are the synagogue of Satan." - Revelation 2: 9 

"Judah, thou art he whom thy brethren shall praise: thy hand shall be in the neck of thine enemies; thy father's children shall bow down before thee. Judah is a lion's cub: from the prey, my son, thou art gone up: he stooped down, he couched as a lion, and as an old lion; who shall rouse him up? The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between his feet." - Genesis 49: 8-10 

"And one of the elders said unto me, Weep not: behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has prevailed to open the book, and to loose the seven seals thereof. And I beheld, and, lo, in the midst of the throne and of the four beasts, and in the midst of the elders, stood a Lamb as it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the Seven Spirits of God sent forth into all the earth." - Revelation 5: 5, 6 

"Behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan, which say they are Jews, and are not, but do lie; behold, I will make them to come and worship before thy feet, and to know that I have loved thee." - Revelation 3: 9 

Authentic Jews are only the Self-realized Masters, the Christified Ones, which are called esoterically, the children of the lion from the tribe of Judah or lion's cubs. Really, the fornicators belong to the synagogue of Satan, they are NOT lion's cubs. Only the lion's cubs can enter into the Heavenly Jerusalem. The twelve tribes of Israel are related with the twelve Zodiacal Orders. Leo is Judah the most exalted among the twelve Orders. Let us remember the ‘Lions of Fire’, the ‘Lions of Life’, the ‘Igneous Shapeless Breaths’, the Triple Divine Powers, who emanated from the active, omni-penetrating and omniscient Okidanokh or Ain Soph Aur. These ‘Lions of Fire’ are Kether , Chokmah , and Binah , true Dragons of Wisdom. Exoterically, this entire humanity are the twelve tribes of Israel; because the entire humanity that unfolds within the zodiacal womb is divided into twelve tribes, represented by the zodiac. It is important to remember that some persons are born under Aries, others under Taurus, Gemini, Cancer,Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius, and Pisces. We can now better comprehend the twelve tribes of Israel. The Lions of Fire, or ‘Lions of Life’ of the zodiacal sign of Leo, are constituted as the most elevated group in the Macrocosm and within the Microcosmic human being. Moreover, it is important to remember that just as the zodiacal belt exists in the firmament, likewise, the flames of the constellation of Leo exist within the human being. The Hierarchy of the Fire is the most important Hierarchy in the Macrocosm and in the Microcosmic human being. This is why it is written: "Ye worship ye know not what: we ( Gnostics ) know what we worship: for salvation is of the Jews (the Christified Ones)." - John 4: 22 The lion's cub named Jesus is the bodhisattva of the Master Aberamentho, a Buddha of Compassion. The lion's cub named Samael Aun Weor is the bodhisattva of Samael Sabaoth, a Buddha of Compassion.
