Jinn State

(Arabic; literally "hidden from sight," from the root  جَنّ / جُنّ j-n-n which means 'to hide, conceal'.) The condition that results from moving physical matter into the fourth dimension. 
“A body while in the “Jinn” state can float in the air (Laghima) or be submerged within the waters (Prakamya), or pass through fire without being burned, or be reduced to the size of an atom (Anima), or be enlarged to the point of touching the sun or the moon with the hand (Mahima). A body submerged within the supra-sensible worlds is submitted to the laws of those worlds. Then, this body is plastic and elastic, so it can change form, decrease its weight (Laghima), or increase its weight (Garima) willingly... When Jesus was walking upon the waters of the Sea of Galilee, he had his body in the state of “Jinn.” Peter was able to liberate himself from the chains and to leave the prison, thanks to the assistance of an Angel who helped him place his body in the state of “Jinn.”” - Samael Aun Weor, The Aquarian Message 
"My friends, the people of Lemuria lived normally within the fourth dimension. This is why it is stated that Adam and Eve inhabited the terrestrial paradise. However, when humanity delivered themselves to Fornication , when the animal passions were unleashed, then the human beings left paradise, they abandoned the fourth vertical. Nevertheless, it is good to know that the powers in order to pass from one dimension into the other, from the third to the fourth and vice versa, are in a latent state in all human beings, and they can manifest, to become active, whether in an spontaneous or in a permanent way. The Jinn people from Ireland cited by you, as well as from other parts of the world, have those powers in activity, therefore they can pass from one dimension to another by will and without any effort. Nonetheless, it is obvious that the simpler the person is, the less complicated his mind is, the easier it is to perform such marvels." - Samael Aun Weor, Gazing at the Mystery 
Learn Jinn science:  The Yellow Book
