Parvati

(Sanskrit पार्वती) "She of the mountain." Also called Uma. In Hinduism, one of the three primary aspects of the Divine Mother. Parvati is the wife / feminine aspect — meaning the shakti, power — of Shiva, the creator and destroyer; He is the Third Logos, the Holy Spirit; He is the sephirah Binah in Kabbalah ; thus, Parvati is the power of Binah , and is thus the goddess of creation, fertility, destruction, and mother of all. She also manifests as Durga and Kali. 
"Siva and Sakti are inseparable. This is shown in Ardhanarisvara—Siva and Parvati (with one body, half-male and half-female). Lord Siva has Parvati as the left half of His body. Siva-Jnana leads us on to the realisation of Self and bestows on us eternal bliss and frees us from births and deaths. It shows us the light of life. It is the eye of intuition. It is the third eye of Siva. This third eye destroys all illusions and passions. Sakti is thought of in various forms. Sarasvati is the Goddess of learning. Lakshmi is the Goddess of wealth. Parvati or Uma is the bliss-bestowing Goddess." - Swami Sivananda 

Ardhanarisvara: Shiva / Parvati as One, the same symbol as the Hebrew "Elohim." 
"Parvati... is the wife or Sakti of Lord Siva. She is the matrix of the universe. She is the revealer of Brahman. She is not only Loka-Mata or World-Mother but also Brahma-Vidya. One of Her names is Sivajnana-Pradayini. She is also called Sivaduti, Sivaradhya, Sivamurti and Sivankari. The grace of Devi is an indispensable factor for the attainment of God -realisation. Parvati or Sakti is all-in-all. You must rouse the Sakti by Yoga . Then the grace of Sakti will lead you to God -realisation and the attainment of the final emancipation and the achievement of infinite, eternal supreme bliss. The glorious story of Parvati is related in detail in the Mahesvara Kanda of the Skanda Purana. Sati, the daughter of Daksha Prajapati, the son of Brahma, was wedded to Lord Siva. Daksha did not like his son-in-law on account of His queer form, strange manners and peculiar habits. Daksha performed a sacrifice. He did not invite his daughter and son-in-law. Sati felt the insult and went to Her father and questioned him. He gave Her a displeasing reply. Sati got enraged at this. She did not want any more to be called his daughter. She preferred to offer Her body to fire and to be born again as Parvati to marry Siva. She created fire through Her Yoga ’s power and destroyed Herself in that Yogagni. Lord Siva sent Virabhadra. He destroyed the sacrifice and drove away all the Devas who assembled there. The head of Daksha was cut off and thrown into the fire. Lord Siva had a goat’s head stuck to the body of Daksha at the request of Brahma. Lord Siva repaired to the Himalayas to do austerities. Asura Taraka had a boon from Brahma that he should die only at the hands of the son of Siva and Parvati. Therefore the Devas requested Himavan to have Sati as his daughter. Himavan agreed. Sati was born as Parvati, the daughter of Himavan. She served Lord Siva during His penance and worshipped Him. Lord Siva married Parvati. Narada proceeded to Kailasa and saw Siva and Parvati with one body, half male, half female in the form of Ardhanarisvara. He wanted to see their play at dice. Lord Siva said He won the game. Parvati said that She was victorious. There was a quarrel. Siva left Parvati and went to practise austerities. Parvati assumed the form of a huntress and met Siva. Siva fell in love with the huntress. He went with her to her father to get his consent for the marriage. Narada informed Lord Siva that the huntress was Parvati. Narada told Parvati to apologise to Her Lord. They were reunited. Siva assumed the form of Arunachala hill as a Linga. He subdued the pride of Brahma and Vishnu who were quarrelling as to their relative greatness. Arunachala is a Tejolinga. Parvati saw Siva as Arunachala-Isvara. Siva took Parvati back to His side and made Her again Ardhanari. Asura Taraka greatly oppressed the Devas. Mahi-Sagara-Sangama-Kshetra was his capital. Lord Subrahmanya, the second son of Parvati, killed the Asura on the seventh day after his birth. Parvati created a child with the face of an elephant for Her pleasure. He was Lord Ganesa. He was made the Lord of all creatures to remove their obstacles. One day Lord Siva offered a fruit saying that it would be given to that child who would go round the world first. Lord Subrahmanya proceeded on a tour round the world. Lord Ganesa went round His father Siva, the Maha Linga who enveloped the whole universe, and got the fruit. Parvati had a dark skin. One day Lord Siva playfully referred to Her dark colour. She was much touched by Siva’s remark. She went to the Himalayas to perform austerities. She attained a beautiful complexion and came to be called Gauri. Gauri joined Siva as Ardhanarisvara by the grace of Brahma. One day Parvati came behind Lord Siva and closed His eyes. The whole universe lost life and light. Siva asked Parvati to practise austerities in order to make amends for Her folly. She proceeded to Kanchi (Kanjivaram) and did rigorous penance. Lord Siva created a flood. The Siva Linga which Parvati was worshipping was about to be washed away. She embraced the Linga. The Linga remained there as Ekambaresvara. She remained there as Kamakshi for the welfare of the world. Parvati ever dwells with Siva as His Sakti. She is the Divine Mother of this universe. She sheds wisdom and grace on Her devotees and makes them attain union with Her Lord. Salutations to Parvati and Siva, the real Parents of all beings." - Swami Sivananda 
"The sacred scriptures of India affirm that the navel, the heart, and the throat are igneous centers of the human organism. They also affirm that by meditating on these centers, we experience the presence of the Masters Sarasvati, Lakshmi, and Parvati or Gauri in successive hierarchical order. These three masters work with the three profundities of our resplendent Dragon of Wisdom. These three Masters direct the forces that come from the three aspects of the Solar Logos. Sarasvati works with the forces of the Father. Lakshmi works with the forces of the Son, and Parvati with the forces of the Holy Spirit. Sarasvati exerts control over the human mind. Lakshmi exerts control over the Astral body . Parvati exerts control over the physical body..." - Samael Aun Weor, The Perfect Matrimony
