Pater Noster (Our Father) Prayer in Latin and English

Also known as "The Prayer of the Lord." 
It is recorded in scripture in the Bible, in Matthew 6:9–13 and Luke 11:2–4. 

Our Father Prayer in English 
This is the common version of this prayer in English : 

"Our Father, Who art in heaven, hallowed be Thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done on earth, as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For Thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. Amen." 

Pater Noster in Latin 
This is the Latin . 

"PATER NOSTER, qui es in caelis, sanctificetur nomen tuum. Adveniat regnum tuum. Fiat voluntas tua, sicut in caelo et in terra. Panem nostrum quotidianum da nobis hodie, et dimitte nobis debita nostra sicut et nos dimittimus debitoribus nostris. Et ne nos inducas in tentationem, sed libera nos a malo. Amen." 

Kabbalistic Interpretation 

"Our Father [Πτα - Ptah], who art in heavens. Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our supersubstantial bread. And forgive us our debts, as we also forgive our debtors. And don't let us yield to temptation, but rescue us from the evil one [the Ego]. For thine is Malkuth, Geburah and Hod for ever and ever. Amen." 

Comments 
Among all of the ritual prayers, the most powerful is the Our Father (Pater Noster, also known as the Prayer of the Lord). This is a magical prayer of immense power.  

"The heart chakra develops with meditation and the most profound prayer. We advise you to pray the Our Father. A well-prayed Our Father is equivalent to one hour of meditation; pray, therefore, the Our Father for one hour. To pray is to converse with God. Hence, immerse yourself into a very profound slumber state and meditate very deeply, thus, converse mentally with God. Each phrase of the Our Father is a complete formula in order to talk to Him. So, while in a slumber state, meditate on the contents of each phrase, this is how the Father, who is in secret, can be seen and heard. This is how the heart chakra awakens." - Samael Aun Weor, The Divine Science 


"It is necessary to learn how to pray the Pater Noster, to learn to converse with Brahma (the Father) who is in secret. A single Pater Noster, well-prayed and wisely combined with meditation, is an entire work of High Magic. A single Pater Noster properly prayed is done in a period of one hour or in a little more than one hour. After the prayer, we must know how to await the reply of the Father and this means to know how to meditate, to have the mind still and in silence, empty of all thoughts, awaiting the reply of the Father." - Samael Aun Weor, Practical Astrology 

Learn more: The Prayer of the Lord
