Personality

(Latin personae: mask) There are two fundamental types of personality: 

Solar: the personality of the inner Being. This type is only revealed through the liberation of the mind from samsara. 

Lunar: the terrestrial, perishable personality. We create a new lunar personality in the first seven years of each new physical body, in accordance with three influences: genotype, phenotype and paratype. Genotype is the influence of the genes, or in other words, karma, our inheritance from past actions. Phenotype is the education we receive from our family, friends, teachers, etc. Paratype is related to the circumstances of life. 

"The personality is time. The personality lives in its own time and does not reincarnate. After death, the personality also goes to the grave. For the personality there is no tomorrow. The personality lives in the cemetery, wanders about the cemetery or goes down into its grave. It is neither the Astral body nor the ethereal double. It is not the Soul. It is time. It is energetic and it disintegrates very slowly. The personality can never reincarnate. It does not ever reincarnate. There is no tomorrow for the human personality." - Samael Aun Weor, The Perfect Matrimony 
"Our personality has to become more and more passive..." - Samael Aun Weor, from the lecture " Knowing How to Listen " 
"The human personality is only a marionette controlled by invisible strings... Evidently, each one of these I’s puts in our minds what we must think, in our mouths what we must say, and in our hearts what we must feel, etc.Under such conditions the human personality is no more than a robot governed by different people, each disputing its superiority and aspiring to supreme control of the major centers of the organic machine... First of all, it is necessary, urgent and imperative that the Magnetic Center, which is abnormally established in our false personality, be transferred to the Essence. In this way, the complete human can initiate his journey from the personality up to the stars, ascending in a progressive, didactic way, step by step up the Mountain of the Being.As long as the Magnetic Center continues to be established in our illusory personality we will live in the most abominable psychological dens of iniquity, although appearing to be splendid citizens in everyday life... These values which serve as a basis for the Law of Recurrence are always found within our human personality."- Samael Aun Weor, The Great Rebellion 
"The personality must not be confused with the “I.” In fact, the personality is formed during the first seven years of childhood. The “I” is something different. It is the error which is perpetuated from century to century; it fortifies itself each time, more and more through the mechanics of recurrence. The personality is energetic. It is born during infancy through habits, customs, ideas, etc., and it is fortified with the experiences of life. Therefore, both the personality as well as the “I” must be disintegrated. These psychological teachings are more revolutionary than those of Gurdjieff and Ouspensky. The “I” utilizes the personality as an instrument of action. Thus, personalism is a mixture of ego and personality. Personality worship was invented by the “I.” In fact, personalism engenders egoism, hatred, violence, etc. All of this is rejected by A-himsa. Personality totally ruins esoteric organizations. Personality produces anarchy and confusion. Personalism can totally destroy any organization... The personality is multiple and has many hidden depths. The karma of previous existences is deposited into the personality. It is karma in the process of fulfillment or crystallization. The impressions which are not digested become new psychic aggregates, and what is more serious, they become new personalities. The personality is not homogenous but rather heterogeneous and plural. One must select impressions in the same manner that one chooses the things of life. If one forgets oneself at a given instant, in a new event, new “I’s” are formed, and if they are very strong they become new personalities within the personality. Therein lies the cause of many traumas, complexes and psychological conflicts. An impression which one does not digest may form into a personality within the personality, and if one does not accept it, it becomes a source of frightening conflicts. Not all the personalities (which one carries within the personality) are accepted; the latter giving origin to many traumas, complexes, phobias, etc. Before all else, it is necessary to comprehend the multiplicity of the personality. The personality is multiple in itself. Therefore, there could be someone who may have disintegrated the psychic aggregates, but if he does not disintegrate the personality, he will not be able to attain authentic enlightenment and the joy of living." - Samael Aun Weor, The Revolution of the Dialectic 
"The personality is energetic. The personality takes form during the first seven years of childhood and is strengthened with time and experiences... The Mental body , the Body of Desires, the Ethereal Body, and the Physical Body integrate the personality... We must finish with the personality and with the “I” in order for the Being to be born within ourselves." - Samael Aun Weor, Tarot and Kabbalah
