Promised Land

The Promised Land is the Fourth Dimension: 

The Embryo of Soul, the Buddhata, Nephesh, needs to develop the twelve powers of the Elohim; these powers unfold within the zodiacal womb, which is divided into twelve tribes, represented by the twelve signs of the zodiac. 

It is clear that when all the twelve tribes of Israel, meaning, when all the parts of our Inner Being are harmoniously integrated by means of the Self-Realization of the Being, all these integrated powers make of that Initiate an Elohim, a Iod -Havah Elohim, an Adam Kadmon. 

Thus, this is how, the twelve tribes of Israel, the twelve powers of Chokmah are harmoniously integrated within Adam Kadmon. 

Initiates, who know how to suffer their trials with patience and work on the integration of the twelve powers within themselves, will inherit the Kingdom, the Promised Land. These types of humans are the only ones who can enter into the Promised Land, the Fourth Dimension, Eden, the Land of Israel. 

Obviously, these true human beings are the ones who have the Mercabah, To Soma Heliakon, the Egyptian Sahu, the Solar Bodies. These are the ones who are the inhabitants of the Kingdom of God , the Tree of Life . 

Only the inhabitants of the Kingdom of God , the Tree of Life , may eat and drink at the table of the Lord. Only the twelve powers within Our Own Self may sit on the twelve thrones in the Heavenly Jerusalem, the City of Heliopolis, the Kingdom of Zion in the Fourth Dimension. 

However, when the twelve tribes of Israel, when the twelve powers of the soul, are not harmoniously integrated, it is because all of them are in servitude of the forces of Klipoth, in the kingdom of the confusion of tongues, the tridimensional world, Assiah. 

It is important to remember that the soul, the Buddhata, Nephesh of people, reincorporates, is born under Aries, others under Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius, and Pisces; these are the twelve tribes of Israel. 

Therefore, the twelve tribes of Israel in servitude of the forces of Klipoth are the entire humanity, which in its totality form the Lost Tribe of Israel. If they do not renounce Fornication , if they continue experiencing the sexual spasm, the orgasm of the beasts, they will never achieve the integration of the twelve powers of the soul, thus, they will never enter into the Promised Land. the Fourth Dimension, the Land of Avalon. 

Therefore, the Lost Tribe of Israel is form by the fornicators who have physical bodies in Malkuth , Assiah, Matzarim, the circle of confusion of tongues. Their soul wanders from life to life (as the Fool of the Tarot ) within the Wheel of Samsara, Malkuth , the Tridimensional World, the World of Assiah, Matzarim. 

The Lost Tribe of Israel is Kabbalistically called “Wandering Jews”, they are not human beings, they are merely intellectual mammals; these souls eventually become inhabitants of Klipoth, the infernal worlds.
