Wedding Garment

From a parable of Jesus: "Then saith he to his servants, The wedding is ready, but they which were bidden were not worthy. Go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall find, bid to the marriage. So those servants went out into the highways, and gathered together all as many as they found, both bad and good: and the wedding was furnished with guests. And when the king came in to see the guests, he saw there a man which had not on a wedding garment: And he saith unto him, Friend, how camest thou in hither not having a wedding garment? And he was speechless. Then said the king to the servants, Bind him hand and foot, and take him away, and cast him into outer darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. For many are called, but few are chosen." - Matthew 22 
"Let us now concentrate on the constitution of the human being. In order to be a human being in the most complete sense of the word, first of all it is necessary to have or possess Solar Bodies. We have been talking a lot about the Egyptian Sahu, which is the same Wedding Garment from that parable in which one man came to be seated at the table of the Lord without the Wedding Garment. Then the Master commanded that he be cast into the darkness. So then, without a Wedding Garment or Solar Bodies we also cannot enter into the Kingdom of the Heavens. It is logical that whosoever does not possess the Solar Bodies is dressed with the Lunar Bodies, which are cold, spectral, diabolic, and tenebrous bodies. An Anima (Latin for “soul”) dressed with Lunar Bodies is not a Human Being, but is an Intellectual Animal, which is a Superior Animal (Anima). The mistake of humanity is to believe that they are already Human Beings, but they are not. Let us remember the story of Diogenes and his lantern; he was looking for a Man (Human Being) and he did not find one. Only Kout Humi, the Master Morya, Saint Germain, etc. are Human Beings; what we have abundantly in this present time are Intellectual Animals. The first body which must be built in the Forge of the Cyclops is the Astral body . Thus, we become Immortals in the World of 24 Laws. Afterwards, we need to build the Mental body , which is ruled by 12 Laws. Whosoever builds the Mental body is Immortal in the World of 12 Laws. Afterwards, one must build the Body of Conscious Will, and become Immortal in the World of 6 Laws. [...] This famous garment is the Egyptian Sahu or the Greek “To Soma Heliakon,” in other words, the Body of Gold of the Solar Man. This is the Wedding Garment required in order to attend the Banquet of the Pascal Lamb. It is necessary and essential to understand that in order to have the Body of Gold of the Solar Man, the Great Alliance is necessary, that is, the work in the Ninth Sphere between man and woman." - Samael Aun Weor, Tarot and Kabbalah
