Witch

Some terms used in Spanish have a very different implication in English; the Spanish word for witch implies someone who is managing forces of nature for selfish or harmful ends. Thus, Samael Aun Weor uses the word to indicate a person who consciously manages forces of nature while motivated by desire, lust, greed, anger, etc. and who by matter of course can awaken their Consciousness in the negative way, becoming a demon. 

"Witches? Sorcerers? Black magicians? They are found everywhere like wild weeds." - Samael Aun Weor, Revolutionary Psychology 

"All of us as children listened to many stories of witches and fairies. Our grandmothers always used to tell us stories of witches that at midnight rode on their brooms and travelled through the clouds. Although it will seem incredible to many students of occultism, Theosophy, Rosicrucianism, etc., those witches really exist. They do not ride brooms as grandmothers believe, but they do know how to travel through the air. The so-called “witches” travel with their body of flesh and bone through space. They know how to make use of hyperspace and travel from one place to another with the physical body. Soon astrophysics will discover the existence of hyperspace." - Samael Aun Weor, The Perfect Matrimony 

"Much is said about "vampirism;" it is said that "many women are vampirized." I don't deny that there are sexual vampires (yes, they exist); "Draculas" have existed and continue existing; further, it is normal today that they abound everywhere (presently, they exist and are everywhere), they are commonly called “warlocks." It is good to remember the adventure of the Trojans with the famous "hags (witches; sorceresses)" of whom Virgil the Poet of Mantua spoke, in The Aeneid. There is no doubt that when those "black sorceresses," those hags, put their bodies in a Jinn state, they are able to transport themselves to different locations of the Earth. If they have enemies, they approach them and they bite them. The wound appears, later, like a black mark in this or that part of the body. So then, indeed, they are not exactly vampires, but hags and warlocks. That is all. They are called "witches." They are something very common, and you know that." - Samael Aun Weor, From the lecture Questions of Importance to Women
