Return

The word return is used in many ways in this tradition, but with two primary definitions: 
1. The process of the soul entering into a new born physical body as determined by karma and circumstance, rather than "by choice" as is popularly imagined. Returning into a physical body as determined by cause and effect (karmic debt) is the norm for all humanoid creatures on this planet, and a mechanical process, not a conscious choice, in spite of popular belief. 

"Millions of people speak about the laws of reincarnation and karma, without having directly experienced their deep significance. Really, the lunar ego returns , re-embodies, penetrates into a new womb, but that cannot be called reincarnation ; speaking with precision, we will say that that is “return.” Reincarnation is something else; reincarnation is only for masters, for sacred individuals, for the Twice-born, for those who already possess the Being. The lunar ego returns and, according to the law of recurrence, it repeats in each life the same actions, the same dramas of preceding lives. The spiral line is the line of life and each life is either repeated in a more elevated, evolving spiral, or in a lower, devolving spiral. Each life is a repetition of the past one, plus its good or bad, pleasant or unpleasant, consequences. In a resolved and definitive manner, many people descend from life to life on the devolving spiral line, until finally entering the infernal worlds. The one who wants to attain in-depth Self-realization must liberate himself from the vicious circle of the evolving and devolving laws of nature." Samael Aun Weor, Practical Astrology 

Samael Aun Weor wrote an entire book related to this subject: Hell, the Devil, and Karma 
2. Return is also related to the twenty-second Arcanum of the Tarot , which is also the Crown of Life. The return to the light is performed through the Venustic Initiations. 
The soul of every living organism emanates from an atom. This atom is the Ain Soph. Each person has his own Ain Soph. This is a star that shines in infinite space beyond the nine Heavens (nine Sephiroth). Every Soul must return to their Star, to their own Ain Soph. This return towards their Star, the Ain Soph, is a divine event, which is performed by the incarnation of the Truth within us. 
The day when the soul is Self-realized will be when it has the luxury of returning to its star. This was commented on by Plato in his "TIMEUS." Each three-brained biped being (intellectual animal) needs to create the solar bodies in order to return to that star. 
The return towards the Great Light has been initiated. Life has started to flow from the outer towards the inner. We are now faced with the dilemma of, "To be or not to be." We need to define ourselves as angels or demons , eagles or reptiles. We have to confront our own destiny.
