Bobbin-Kandelnosts

Refers to the vital values,  energetic potential carried in the individual. An obscure term, but known in the teachings of Gurdjieff. 
"One system of Djamtesternokhi or mechanical watch contains a spring exactly calculated and arranged so that the length of the duration of its tension from unwinding may be sufficient for twenty-four hours; another system has a spring for a week, a third for a month, and so on. The Bobbin-kandelnost in the brains of beings existing only according to the principle Itoklanoz corresponds to the spring in mechanical watches of various systems. Just as the duration of the movement of mechanical watches depends upon the spring they contain, so the duration of the existence of beings depends exclusively on the Bobbin-kandelnosts formed in their brains during their arising and during the process of their further formation. Just as the spring of a watch has a winding of a definite duration, so these beings also can associate and experience only as much as the possibilities for experiencing put into them by Nature during the crystallization of those same Bobbin-kandelnosts in their brains. They can associate and consequently exist just so much, and not a whit more nor less. As mechanical watches can act as long as the spring has what is called ‘the-tension-of-winding,’ so the beings in whose brains the said Bobbin-kandelnosts are crystallized can experience and consequently exist until these Bobbin-kandelnosts formed in their brains—owing to the mentioned seven external conditions—are used up." —Gurdjieff, All and Everything 29.440 
"Even if this seems incredible, the truth is that—within each person—death is processed in thirds. It has already been demonstrated completely that every illness has its basis in one of the three brains . The great law has wisely deposited within each of the three brains of the intellectual animal a definite capital of vital values. Saving such capital prolongs life, whereas squandering such capital produces death... In the center of Asia there exists a religious community constituted by elderly people who do not even remember their teenage years. The average life span of these old people oscillates between four hundred and five hundred years. The whole secret of long life for these Asiatic monks lies within the wise use of the three brains . The balanced and harmonious function of the three brains results in the saving of vital values and, as a logical consequence, the prolongation of life." —Samael Aun Weor,  Fundamentals of Gnostic Education 
"[Regarding Arcanum 13] A Hierarch of the Law cuts some stalks of wheat that have large and small grains, which are called Bobbin-Kandelnosts. They represent the values, the capital, that each human being carries in the three brains (intellectual, motor, emotional). Whosoever carries small grains lives little, dying within a few days, months, or within the first year of life. One lives by thirds and dies by thirds. Whosoever squanders their intellectual capital falls into insanity, schizophrenia, etc. Whosoever squanders their motor center, or center of movement, ends up paralyzed, deformed, etc. Whosoever squanders their emotional center suffers from illness of the heart." —Samael Aun Weor, Tarot and Kabbalah
