Bodhichitta

(Sanskrit बोधिचित्त; often spelled bodhicitta, but pronounced "bo-dee-cheeta") Literally, Bodhi means enlightenment or wisdom. Chitta means mind. The synthesis, bodhichitta means the enlightened mind or the mind of wisdom. This term has many levels of application. 

In Sutrayana (introductory form), bodhichitta is used to describe the altruistic intention to attain enlightenment for the benefit of suffering beings. 
In Mahayana teachings, bodhichitta is an elevated state of awareness (prajna) which directly perceives Emptiness (the Absolute). 
In Tantrayana, bodhichitta refers to the seminal fluids of the body. The Tibetan version, byan-sems, can be translated either as “enlightenment mind” or “ semen .” It must be understood that " semen " (literally "seed") is found in both males and females, and can only create life when combined; the seed-essence (the energy) creates Bodhichitta only in very specific circumstances. Read The Perfect Matrimony . 
Samael Aun Weor often expresses the synthesis, which combines all of these meanings. 

"Whatever joy there is in this world All comes from desiring others to be happy, And whatever suffering there is in this world, All comes from desiring myself to be happy. 
But what need is there to say much more? The childish work for their own benefit, The Buddhas work for the benefit of others. Just look at the difference between them!" —Shantideva 
"Bodhicitta or the altruistic aspiration to attain enlightenment for the benefit of all sentient beings is a state of mind which cannot be cultivated or generated within one's mental continuum simply by praying for it to come into being in one's mind. Nor will it come into existence by simply developing the understanding of what that mind is. One must generate that mind within one's mind's continuum. In order to engage in Meditation with sustained effort over a period of time what is crucial is first of all to be convinced of the positive qualities of that mind, and the benefits and merits of generating such a state of mind. It is only when one has seen the qualities, merits and benefits of generating such a state of mind that one will be able to generate within oneself a genuine enthusiasm and perseverance in engaging in a Meditation which would enable the individual to generate the mind." —The 14th Dalai Lama 

"The Bodhichitta is the awakened and developed superlative Consciousness of the Being. The Bodhichitta emerges in the aspirant who sacrifices himself for his fellowmen, long before the Mercurial bodies have been created... It is necessary for the Bodhichitta, which means the auric embryo, the awakened Consciousness , to fall into the Illuminated Void." - Samael Aun Weor, The Gnostic Bible: The Pistis Sophia Unveiled 

"Obviously, before the bodhisattva is born, the Bodhichitta must be formed within ourselves. Furthermore, it is important to clarify the necessity of disintegrating the ego , the “I,” in order for the Bodhichitta to emerge. The Bodhichitta is formed with the merits of love and supreme sacrifice for our fellowmen. The bodhisattva is formed within the environment and psychological atmosphere of the Bodhichitta." - Samael Aun Weor, The Gnostic Bible: The Pistis Sophia Unveiled 

"The one who does not possess the Bodhichitta, even when he has created the superior existential bodies of the Being, is still unconscious and absurd." - Samael Aun Weor, The Gnostic Bible: The Pistis Sophia Unveiled 

Learn more about Bodhichitta: 

Kalachakra: Bodhichitta 
Eight Verses on Mind Training 
Thirty-seven Verses on the Practices of Bodhisattvas 
The Need to Crystallize the Soul 
Bodhichitta in Christianity  from  Path of the bodhisattva 
Bodhichitta  from Path of the bodhisattva 
Analysis and Bodhichitta  from Meditation without Exertion 
Bodhichitta  from Fuel for Spirtual Experience
