Christ

Derived from the Greek Χριστός Christos, “the Anointed One,” and Krestos, whose esoteric meaning is “fire.” The word Christ is a title, not a personal name. 

"I [John] indeed baptize you with water unto repentance: but he [Christ] that cometh after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear: he [Christ] shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost, and [with] fire: Whose fan [is] in his hand, and he will throughly purge his floor, and gather his wheat into the garner; but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire." —Matthew3:12, Luke 3:16 

"I [Christ] am come to send fire on the earth..." —Luke 12:49 

Jesus [Christ] said, "I [Christ] have cast fire upon the world, and see, I am guarding it until it blazes." —Gospel of Thomas 

Jesus [Christ] said, "He who is near Me [Christ] is near the fire, and he who is far from Me is far from the Kingdom." —Gospel of Thomas 

"If someone is near me [Christ], he will burn. I [Christ] am the fire that blazes. Whoever is near me is near fire; whoever is far from me is far from life." —Gospel of the Savior 

"Now therefore if any one hath received the mysteries of Baptism, those mysteries become a great fire, exceeding strong, and wise, so as to burn up all the sins: and the Fire [Christ] entereth into the soul secretly, so that it may consume within it all the sins which the counterfeit of the spirit hath printed there." — Pistis Sophia 

"Indeed, Christ is a Sephirothic Crown ( Kether , Chokmah and Binah ) of incommensurable wisdom, whose purest atoms shine within Chokmah , the world of the Ophanim. Christ is not the Monad, Christ is not the Theosophical Septenary; Christ is not the Jivan-Atman. Christ is the Central Sun. Christ is the ray that unites us to the Absolute." —Samael Aun Weor, Tarot and Kabbalah 

"The Gnostic Church adores the Saviour of the World, Jesus. The Gnostic Church knows that Jesus incarnated Christ, and that is why they adore him. Christ is not a human nor a divine individual. Christ is a title given to all fully self-realised Masters. Christ is the Army of the Voice. Christ is the Verb. The Verb is far beyond the body, the soul and the Spirit. Everyone who is able to incarnate the Verb receives in fact the title of Christ. Christ is the Verb itself. It is necessary for everyone of us to incarnate the Verb (Word). When the Verb becomes flesh in us we speak with the verb of light. In actuality, several Masters have incarnated the Christ. In secret India, the Christ Yogi Babaji has lived for millions of years; Babaji is immortal. The Great Master of Wisdom Kout Humi also incarnated the Christ. Sanat Kumara, the founder of the Great College of Initiates of the White Lodge, is another living Christ. In the past, many incarnated the Christ. In the present, some have incarnated the Christ. In the future many will incarnate the Christ. John the Baptist also incarnated the Christ. John the Baptist is a living Christ. The difference between Jesus and the other Masters that also incarnated the Christ has to do with Hierarchy. Jesus is the highest Solar Initiate of the Cosmos..." —Samael Aun Weor, The Perfect Matrimony
