Churches

(Greek ἐκκλησία ekklēsia, "place of assembly" especially in a religious sense. From a compound of ἐκ and a derivative of καλέω, thus meaning "to call forth.") 

1. A place of worship. 

"There are three types of churches: first, the Triumphant Church, represented by the few Knights of the Grail who persisted to remain pure; second, the Failing Church, represented by those who abhor the Initiatic Stone; third, the Militant Church, represented by the others, who as Mary Magdalene, Paul of Tarsus, Kundry, and Amfortas, are still in rebellion against the seductive Luciferic fire." - Samael Aun Weor, Magic of the Runes 

2. Physiologically, energetic centers that allow energy from the superior worlds to connect to the physical world. The churches are only activated in those who have awakened them through raising the fire of the Holy Spirit (pentecost, Kundalini ) upon the spinal column (the rod of Aaron). The conditions to awaken them are described in the book of Revelation. 
“The seven most important glands of the human organism constitute the seven laboratories controlled by the Law of the Triangle. Each of these glands has an exponent in a chakra of the organism. Each one of the seven chakras is found located in intimate correlation with the seven churches of the spinal medulla. The seven churches of the dorsal spine control the seven chakras of the Grand Sympathetic Nervous System. The seven churches become intensely active with the ascent of the Kundalini along the medullar canal. The Kundalini dwells in the electrons. The Sages meditate on it; devotees adore it, and in homes where the Perfect Matrimony reigns, it is worked with practically.” - Samael Aun Weor, The Perfect Matrimony 
“The seven churches are within the Microcosmos and within the Macrocosmos. The seven churches of the spinal medulla are united to the seven chakras or plexus of the Grand Sympathetic Nervous System by means of very fine nerves. The seven churches are similar to lotus flowers which are suspended from the famous Nadi Chitra. The canal of Shushumna is within the medullar canal. The canal of Nadi Chitra is within this canal of Shushumna. The seven beautiful and divine churches are suspended from this precious medullar canal.” - Samael Aun Weor, The Aquarian Message
