Comprehension

(Tibetan: go; Sanskrit: jna, “to know.”) 
"To comprehend is something immediate, direct, something that we vividly undergo intensely, something that we experience very profoundly, and which inevitably becomes the true intimate source of conscious action. To remember or to recollect is something dead, something that belongs to the past, and that unfortunately becomes an ideal, a motto, an idea, an idealism that we want to mechanically imitate and unconsciously follow. In true comprehension, in profound comprehension, in intimate in-depth comprehension, there exists only the intimate pressure of the Consciousness , a persistent pressure born from the Essence that we carry within, and that is all. Authentic comprehension is manifested as a spontaneous, natural, and simple action, free from the depressing process of selection; it is pure, without any type of indecision." - Samael Aun Weor, Fundamentals of Gnostic Education 
"Knowledge and comprehension are different. Knowledge is of the mind. Comprehension is of the heart." - Samael Aun Weor, Treatise of Revolutionary Psychology 
"The annihilation of the psychic aggregates can be made possible only by radically comprehending our errors through Meditation and by the evident Self-reflection of the Being... It is urgent to know how to meditate, in order to comprehend any psychic aggregate, or in other words, any psychological defect. It is indispensable to know how to work with all our heart and with all our soul, if we want the elimination to occur." - Samael Aun Weor, The Gnostic Bible: The Pistis Sophia Unveiled 
"[The Apostle] Thomas is the part of the Being who is related with the intimate sense of comprehension. A great deal of analysis, reflection, and above all, Meditation and evident self-reflection of the Being are indispensable for comprehension." - Samael Aun Weor, The Gnostic Bible: The Pistis Sophia Unveiled 
"No phenomena of nature can be integrally comprehended if we consider it isolated." - Samael Aun Weor, The Revolution of the Dialectic 
This is why the study of Kabbalah is so important: Kabbalah is a map how everything in nature (including our soul) is related to everything else.
