Cynic

From Greek kynikos, literally "dog-like," from kyon "dog". 
Originally, to be a cynic meant to be a follower of Antisthenes, a Greek philosopher, whose "purpose in life was to live in virtue, in agreement with nature. As reasoning creatures, people could gain happiness by rigorous training and by living in a way which was natural for themselves, rejecting all conventional desires for wealth, power, sex and fame. Instead, they were to lead a simple life free from all possessions. [...] By the 19th century, emphasis on the negative aspects of Cynic philosophy led to the modern understanding of cynicism to mean a disposition of disbelief in the sincerity or goodness of human motives and actions. [In modern times,] Cynicism is an attitude or state of mind characterized by a general distrust of others' motives. A cynic may have a general lack of faith or hope in the human species or people motivated by ambition, desire, greed, gratification, materialism, goals, and opinions that a cynic perceives as vain, unobtainable, or ultimately meaningless and therefore deserving of ridicule or admonishment." [Wikipedia] In fact, in 2014 scientists found evidence that cynicism leads to dementia : "...people with high levels of cynical distrust were three times more likely to develop dementia..." 
"Undoubtedly, karma regulates our lives. But we must never protest against karma. There are things that we want to be in a certain way, since they are not as we wish they were. Then we protest against karma, instead of thanking karma. Actually, karma is a medicine, my dear brothers and sisters. Extraordinary medicine! A medicine with which they want to cure us. Then why do we protest against that medicine? Foolish is the patient who protests against the remedy that is being given to him. If this remedy is brought to heal us, why do we protest against the remedy? “Behold, blessed is the man whom God corrects: therefore do not despise the chastening of the Almighty.” —Job 5:17. Obviously, the Creator wants to heal us, and his medicine is called “karma." Yet, when we have no remedy, when the medicine no longer helps us, when we have become so cynical that not even karma can truly heal us, obviously we must then enter into the submerged devolution in the infernal worlds. There we will conclude with the Second Death (as written in the Gospels): where it is clear, the annihilation of the egos occurs. The Essence is something else; she escapes from the abyss in order to begin a new evolving journey. Therefore, cynicism is the last word of the lost . The cynic for whom the medicine is no longer effective is a lost case... Obviously, they can no longer exist; they have come to their final destruction, and nobody can stop them; their devolution is frighteningly precipitated towards the center of gravity of the Earth, where they turn to dust..." —Samael Aun Weor 
"The intellect is satanic when it is used for the service of the internal beast [of Revelation]. The intellectual villains (cynics and skeptics) are the result of intellectualism without spirituality. These intellectual villains are the exact image of the beast." —Samael Aun Weor, The Aquarian Message 
"The Poisoninioskirian vibrations [that result from abuse of sexual energy] produce in people a high degree of fanaticism and expert cynicism. These types of people were abundant among the great Inquisitors, for example, Tomas de Torquemada." —Samael Aun Weor, The Doomed Aryan Race 
"Devolution of the sexual secretions produces certain malignant vibrations, known in esotericism as “Poisonioonoskirian vibrations.” Already poisoned by evil Poisonioonoskirian vibrations, any abstaining person undergoes horrific catastrophes in his biology, physiology and psyche. Some individuals build up fat in their bodies, while in others it turns into something different and makes them become scraggy, thin as a rake, covered by pimples, with marks on the skin, etc. Now from a psychological point of view, the involuting sperm produces a personal idiosyncrasy: on the one hand, it becomes extreme fanaticism, and on the other hand, very highly expert cynicism. Let us look at the men of the Middle Ages, the great inquisitors: abstaining, celibate, fat individuals, loaded with fat, real pigs; others thin, gaunt, ugly, horrible, with their skin full of spots. After they burned a victim at the stake, or tortured him, you could see their cynicism, their eyes were glittering with fanaticism. So, in that kind of person we find on the one hand fanaticism taken to the extreme, and on the other hand disconcerting cynicism. After burning an innocent victim, they would shrug their shoulders and justify themselves in a really cynical way." —Samael Aun Weor,  The Transmutation of Sexual Energy (2)
