Divine Mother

The Divine Mother is the eternal, feminine principle, which is formless, and further unfolds into many levels, aspects, and manifestations. 

"Devi or Sakti is the Mother of Nature. She is Nature Itself. The whole world is Her body. Mountains are Her bones. Rivers are Her veins. Ocean is Her bladder. Sun, moon are Her eyes. Wind is Her breath. Agni is Her mouth. She runs this world show. Sakti is symbolically female; but It is, in reality, neither male nor female. It is only a Force which manifests Itself in various forms. The five elements and their combinations are the external manifestations of the Mother. Intelligence, discrimination, psychic power, and will are Her internal manifestations." —Swami Sivananda 


“Among the Aztecs, she was known as Tonantzin, among the Greeks as chaste Diana. In Egypt she was Isis, the Divine Mother, whose veil no mortal has lifted. There is no doubt at all that esoteric Christianity has never forsaken the worship of the Divine Mother Kundalini. Obviously she is Marah, or better said, RAM-IO, MARY. What orthodox religions did not specify, at least with regard to the exoteric or public circle, is the aspect of Isis in her individual human form. Clearly, it was taught only in secret to the Initiates that this Divine Mother exists individually within each human being. It cannot be emphasized enough that Mother-God, Rhea, Cybele, Adonia, or whatever we wish to call her, is a variant of our own individual Being in the here and now. Stated explicitly, each of us has our own particular, individual Divine Mother.” —Samael Aun Weor, The Great Rebellion 


“Devi Kundalini, the Consecrated Queen of Shiva, our personal Divine Cosmic Individual Mother, assumes five transcendental mystic aspects in every creature, which we must enumerate: 
1. The unmanifested Prakriti 
2. The chaste Diana, Isis, Tonantzin, Maria or better said Ram-Io 
3. The terrible Hecate, Persephone, Coatlicue, queen of the infemos and death; terror of love and law 
4. The special individual Mother Nature, creator and architect of our physical organism 
5. The Elemental Enchantress to whom we owe every vital impulse, every instinct.” —Samael Aun Weor, The Mystery of the Golden Blossom 


"How many times, oh ignorant mortals, have you been visited by your Divine Mother, and nonetheless you did not recognize her?" —Samael Aun Weor, Magic of the Runes
