Divine Comedy

Ever since the Divine Comedy was written, some seven centuries ago,
there have been piles of books written commenting upon the works of
Dante, but especially the Divine Comedy. Dante Alaghieri was born in
1265 in Florence, Italy. What is known of his life is based on scraps
of documentary evidence: a little note here, a reference there.
Otherwise, all that is known is what scholars have assumed based on his
works. While many scholars and readers have noticed that Dante seems
particularly mystical, none identified him as an initiate of the
mystery schools. For until very recently, only those who were initiated
into such schools could recognize the works of another educated in
those esoteric sciences. Dante was in fact writing a work that would
have gotten him killed had he written it openly. Dante himself said
that the "letter is fiction, and the truth is found in the allegory
alone." Thus for centuries scholars and philosophers have expounded
theory upon theory attempting to understand this complex and deeply
woven poem, and most, if not all, agree that they appreciate it"s
beauty, but never managed to penetrate it"s inner meaning. None have
captured the truth of his allegory. The Divine Comedy, as the greatest
work produced by Dante, is then a great work of initiatic wisdom. In it
we can find an outline of the complete path of the Bodhisattva, a path
traveled by very few beings of this humanity. In this work he describes
in depth the path that one must walk in order to redeem the soul and
claim a place in the Kingdom of Heaven. It is not a "comedy" in the way
we understand it: the term used to mean something that had a happy
ending, and that was written in a humble and everyday style. 

Summary of The Divine Comedy: "In exposition, says Dante,
"always the literal must come first"; and he adds, describing his
interpretation of his own canzoni, "I shall discourse first of the
literal meaning, and after that shall treat of the allegorical, that
is, the hidden truth." We may pursue the same course. Literally, then,
the Divina Commedia is the narrative of a journey through Hell,
Purgatory, and Heaven. The poet, in the middle of his life, finds
himself astray at night in a dark wood. He tries to save himself by
climbing a mountain whose top is lit by the rays of the rising sun; but
three beasts, besetting his path, are about to drive him back, when
Virgil, summoned to Dante's help by Beatrice, at the bidding of Mary
and St. Lucia, appears and offers to guide him. They can escape from
the wood only by going through the earth from side to side. This path
leads them through the whole of Hell, where Dante sees the punishment
of every kind of sin and converses with the damned. Hell ends at the
earth's center, and from that point the poets climb out by a dark,
undescribed channel to the opposite hemisphere. They emerge in the
middle of the ocean, on the shore of an island which consists mainly of
a colossal mountain. Cato of Utica, the guardian of the place, meets
and directs them. Up the steep mountain-side Dante drags himself, still
accompanied by Virgil. On the ledges are repentant souls preparing
themselves by discipline for the heavenly life. As Dante and Virgil are
approaching the summit, they are joined by Statius, who has just
completed his penance. The three mount together to the top, where they
find the Garden of Eden, and in it a fair, happy, amorous young maiden,
Matelda, who seems to embody the spirit of the place. Amid the trees
and flowers they witness a pageant of the Church, or Triumph of
Revelation, whose culmination is the appearance of Beatrice in a shower
of lilies thrown by angels. Now Virgil vanishes, and presently Statius
is mentioned for the last time. Beatrice it is who leads Dante up from
earth through the revolving heavens into the real Paradise, which is
the presence of the Almighty, and consigns him to St. Bernard, the
great mystic. The poem ends with a vision of the Trinity." The Divine
Comedy reflects, according to Dante himself, a previous work of similar
nature: the Aenied, written by the Roman poet Virgil, who in Dante"s
time was universally regarded as the wisest man in history. And in the
sixth book of the Aeneid, the hero must travel through the regions of
the underworld.
