Dragon of Wisdom

The inner Christ (the sephiroth Kether, Chokmah, and Binah). 

Whosoever wants to become an omnipotent god of the universe has to free his seven serpents from their scales... Then we become dragons of wisdom... The dragon is the most perfect pictorial animal, because it can live on earth, in water, in air, and in fire... A dragon of wisdom is a god of the universe. A dragon of wisdom has seven tongues of fire... seven igneous serpents... — Samael Aun Weor, Secret Notes of a Guru 


Whosoever attains the Venustic Initiation has the joy of incarnating the dragon of wisdom (the inner Christ)... One is the Father (Kether), two is the Son (Chokmah), three is the Holy Spirit (Binah): they are the resplendent dragon of wisdom within any human being that comes into the world. Anyone who achieves the dissolution of the psychological “I” (the Fool of the Tarot) incarnates one’s resplendent dragon of wisdom. Whosoever incarnates the resplendent dragon of wisdom becomes a spirit of wisdom. —Samael Aun Weor, Alchemy and Kabbalah in the Taro t 


Beyond the Innermost every human being has three profundities: the first one is the origin of life, the second is the origin of the Word, and the third is the origin of the sexual force. These three divine profundities of each human being constitute the resplendent Dragon of Wisdom. These three are the internal God and the Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. He is the internal Christ whom human beings need to incarnate within. —Samael Aun Weor, The Aquarian Message 


“...the Solar Gnostic Chnouphis, the Christus Agathodaemon, the serpent of Genesis, the Nahuatl Lucifer [Xolotl], the resplendent dragon of wisdom.”— Samael Aun Weor 


The human being is converted into a Cosmic Chrestos when he receives his resplendent Dragon of Wisdom. Jesus of Nazareth converted himself into a Cosmic Chrestos when he received his resplendent Dragon of Wisdom in the Jordan. John the Baptist was an Initiate of the Cosmic Chrestos. An eternal breath exists within the heart of every life. All of the breaths of life are the Great Breath emanated from the Absolute in the dawn of the Mahamanvantara. All the breaths are resplendent Dragons of Wisdom. The Great Breath is the Cosmic Christ, the Army of the Voice, Kwan-Yin, the Melodious Voice, Avalokiteshvara, Vishnu, Osiris, the Central Sun. After having raised the seven serpents upon the staff, the human being then, after some time of work, prepares himself to receive his resplendent Dragon of Wisdom. That is the “descent of Christ into the human being.” — Samael Aun Weor, Kundalini
