God

"All nations have their first God , or gods, as androgynous; it could not be in any other way, since they used to consider their distant primal ancestors, their double-sex forefathers, as divine beings and holy gods, just as the Chinese do today. Indeed, the artificial conception of an anthropomorphic Jehova who is exclusivist, independent of his own work, sitting up there on a throne of tyranny and despotism, throwing lightning and thunder against this miserable human ant hill, is the outcome of ignorance, mere intellectual idolatry. This erroneous conception of the truth has unfortunately taken possession of both the western philosopher and the religious person who is affiliated to any of those sects that are completely lacking the Gnostic elements. What the  Gnostics  of all times have rejected is not the unknown God , one and always present in Nature, or Nature in abscondito, but the God of the orthodox dogma, the horrific vengeful deity of the law of Talion (“an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth”). The Absolute Abstract Space, the Unknowable God , is neither a limitless void nor a conditioned fullness, but both things in unison. The Gnostic esotericist understands that revelation comes from divine beings, from manifested lives, but never from the one life not manifestable. The Unknowable Seity is the Absolute Abstract Space, the rootless root of all that has been, is, or shall be." —Samael Aun Weor, The Secret Doctrine of Anahuac 

"The love that all mystic institutions of the world feel for the divine is noticeable: for Allah, Brahma, Tao, Zen, I.A.O., INRI, God , etc. Religious esotericism does not teach atheism of any kind, except in the sense that the Sanskrit word nastika encloses: no admission of idols, including that anthropomorphic God of the ignorant populace. It would be an absurdity to believe in a celestial dictator who is seated upon a throne of tyranny and throws lightning and thunderbolts against this sad human ant hill. Esotericism admits the existence of a Logos, or a collective Creator of the universe, a Demiurge architect. It is unquestionable that such a Demiurge is not a personal deity as many mistakenly suppose, but rather a host of Dhyan Chohans, Angels, Archangels, and other forces. God is Gods. It is written with characters of fire in the resplendent book of life that God is the Army of the Voice, the great Word, the Verb. "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God , and the Word was God . All things were made by him, and without him was not any thing made that was made." (John 1:1-3) For this reason, it is evident that any authentic human being who really achieves perfection enters into the Current of Sound, into the Celestial Army constituted by the Buddhas of Compassion, Angels, Planetary Spirits, Elohim, Rishi- Prajapatis, etc. It has been said to us that the Logos sounds and this is obvious. The Demiurge, the Verb, is the multiple, perfect unity. Whosoever adores the Gods, whosoever surrenders worship unto them, is more capable of capturing the deep significance of the diverse divine facets of the Demiurge architect. When humanity began to mock the Holy Gods, then it fell mortally wounded into the gross materialism of this Iron Age." —Samael Aun Weor, The Three Mountains 

The perfect, intelligent, impersonal, ineffable, and unrevealed multiplied unity or entity that nobody has seen, but whose strength, creative potential, has been molded in the perennial rhythm of creation. 

"If when you address “ God ” you mean that puppet painted by some dead sects? That puppet has no existence. That puppet is created by our misleading fantasy ... It is better if we think of the manifested unity, which is the Army of the Word; you yourself are part of that Army of the Word — better said, the superior part of your self in the Tree of Life , the Kether of the Hebrew Kabbalah , an igneous and divine particle, is therefore a fragment of the great manifested unity, which is not an individual and who has no head or feet, but is an ocean, essential with space, life, free in its movement. In turn, that manifested unity comes from the unmanifested unity.  The unmanifested is endless! Can you find an end to space? For it is the same space. Where can you mark an end to space? Therefore, if we think this way, we will understand better. Because if you talk to me about a God in the sky, a gentleman with a long beard that reaches his navel, seated on a throne of tyranny, throwing thunderbolts against all of this wretched human anthill — well, frankly, I do not accept it. Indeed, in relation to that puppet, you could ask, "Who made this puppet?" Well, of course, when one comes to know a tyrant puppet like that, one has to grab it from his beard, right? But that puppet does not exist. That is a misleading fantasy. We must begin to understand that in the depths, there in the most profound depths of our being, we are just particles of the great ocean of universal life, and that is all. So, this is how we must understand God , in that manner and not in an anthropomorphic way.  Anthropomorphism has caused a lot of damage. Many Russians, those Russian astronauts precisely, when they got to space in their famous rockets, the famous Russian rockets, they said: “Where is God , we have not found him anywhere here.” Why? Because humanity was taught idolatry. Humans were taught that God is a gentleman up there in the sky, seated on the throne of tyranny. So, that is misleading, that is false..." —Samael Aun Weor,  Alchemical Symbolism of the Nativity of Christ 

"Certainly, Elohim is translated as “ God ” in the various authorized and revised versions of the Bible. Not only from the esoteric point of view, but also linguistically, it is an incontrovertible fact that the term Elohim is a feminine noun with a plural masculine ending. The correct translation of the noun Elohim in its strict sense is “goddesses and gods.” —Samael Aun Weor, The Secret Doctrine of Anahuac
