Guru

(Sanskrit गुरु, literally "teacher") This term can apply to any kind of teacher. Yet, in Gnosis the focus is generally upon the superior or root Guru, which is the Innermost within us, who can lead us to complete liberation. 

"Realisation cannot come to you as a miracle done by your Guru. Lord Buddha, Lord Jesus, Rama Tirtha have all done Sadhana. Lord Krishna asks Arjuna to develop Vairagya (dispassion) and Abhyasa (practice). He did not say to him, "I will give you Mukti (liberation) now". Therefore, abandon the wrong notion that your Guru will give you Samadhi and Mukti. Strive, purify, meditate, and realise." - Swami Sivananda 

"There is a need to search for a guru in order for him to guide us along this internal and delicate way. The guru must be searched for within, in the profundity of the Consciousness ... Each disciple must search for the master inside, inside, inside. The master is found in the profundity of our Consciousness . If you want to search for the master, abandon all bookish erudition and pseudo-spiritual schools. The master appears when the disciple is prepared." - Samael Aun Weor, Igneous Rose 

"The majority of the tenebrous brothers and sisters of Aquarius are wicked people who are going around teaching black magic. I know a fallen bodhisattva from Bogotá (Colombia), who formed a sect of imbecilic eunuchs who hate sex. Thus, through this awful way, this wretched brother harms homes and closes the doors of Eden for others. So, in this day and age, it is very dangerous to just simply follow someone. What is best is to seek the Inner Master. The best thing is to follow our “I Am.” The best thing is to learn how to travel in the Astral body in order to visit the temples of the White Lodge and to receive the teachings directly in the temple... This is why we advise our disciples not to follow anyone. Let our disciples follow their own Self. Each of our disciples has to follow their resplendent and luminous Inner Being. Each one has to adore their own “I Am.” We beg, beseech, our disciples not to follow us. We do not want henchmen or followers. We have written this book so that you, our friends, listen to your own Internal Master, your resplendent “I AM.” The Innermost is your master: follow Him. First, take heed that none of the many false Avatars who appear during these times deceive you, for many impostors appear in these times and deceive others. Second, take heed of sexual temptations. Third, do not ever attend spiritual centers; the medium-channelers can easily lead you astray from the path." - Samael Aun Weor, The Major Mysteries
